Hello doctor,I had mumps five months ago and after that, I started to have an infection in my left testes. It was swollen and now it has shrunk to almost half the size of the other one. As I am sexually active, I feel a pain in each of the vas deferens after sex. If I do not have sex for days, they become sensitive. I was treated with Ceftum 500 mg, the first time I had an infection. Now my question is, is there any chance that the infection is still in my body? And, do I need to get examined for it? For the time being, please suggest some precautionary antibiotics for my relief.

1) There is no need to worry about reinfection as the infection caused by Mumps virus does not persist in the body and is completely cleared up by the immune system.2) The swelling at your scrotum is due to inflammation of epididymis or vas deferens which is a result of mumps infection.3) There is no need to take antibiotics for this problem. You can take anti-inflammatory medicines like Ibuprofen for symptomatic relief.4) Doing cool compresses over the scrotal area will help in reducing the inflammation and pain.

Hello doctor,I am trying to conceive but my husband and I did cocaine a week ago. How long should my husband and I wait to safely continue to try to get pregnant? How long until it is out of our system? How long does cocaine stay in sperm? Thanks in advance.

1) Cocaine use can affect fertility by causing male infertility due to decreased sperm motility and morphology as well as increased abnormal semen parameters (especially pH). However, there is insufficient evidence to suggest that cocaine causes significant changes in female fertility.2) It is not clear how long cocaine remains in semen or blood after use. Therefore, it is difficult to say exactly when it will be completely gone from your husbands body.3) There is no data regarding the amount of time that couples need to abstain from sexual activity before attempting conception.4) In conclusion, if you want to become pregnant, then you should avoid coke for at least three months before trying to conceive. Hope this helps

Hello doctor,I am currently on the Yaz contraceptive pill. I skipped my sugar pills for around four months and had a breakthrough period this month. I had my period last week, but I still have some residual brown discharge for about a week now. Additionally, I had sex a few days ago and bled during it. Nothing hurts or is sore, I just want to know how long I am going to have the brown discharge and if I should be worried or if I should do anything about it?

1) The brown discharge is due to the hormonal imbalance in your body after missing the sugar pills. It will gradually settle down.2) There is no need to worry as there is nothing serious happening with you. Just wait for the brown discharge to subside.3) You can take a course of antibiotic like Doxycycline 100 mg twice daily for 5 days if the problem persists.

Hello doctor,My son aged 13 years has got his left eye -11 and right with -8. I am now very worried what good precautions should I take with him. Can you suggest me what should I do?

 Hi, welcome to Chat Doctor forum. I understand your concern about your sons eyes. The best thing for you to do is to get an appointment with an ophthalmologist who can examine your sons eyes more thoroughly and determine if there are any treatable conditions that could be causing the vision loss in his eyes. There are some conditions that can cause vision loss at younger ages and it would not be wise to wait too long before getting him examined by a specialist. You may also want to have him checked out by a pediatrician or general practitioner as well to rule out other health related issues that could be contributing to his vision problems. Hope this helps. Good luck.

Hello doctor,I just got one side of my wisdom teeth removed both upper and lower six days ago, and I have another one scheduled after two days for the left side. The upper is 100 % fine, which they pulled. The lower they pulled the tooth without removing the root because it was too close to the nerve. I do have some stitching in this area currently on the lower cheek. Noticed a hard lump about 1 inch between my lower jawline and cheek area. Is this normal because of swelling or something else. Currently taking Amoxicillin 500 mg and Ibuprofen 600 mg. Please let me know what this hard lump is, also generally on the lower side where this lump is, remains sore.

 Hi, Thanks for your query. It appears that you are having post-operative complication like hematoma formation at the site of extraction socket. This can be due to trauma during surgical procedure or due to poor blood supply. You need to take an antibiotic like amoxicillin along with anti-inflammatory painkiller like ibuprofen. I suggest you to consult your dentist again and get evaluated. Hope this helps. Regards.

Hello doctor,I had deep unprotected sex for three minutes with a broken condom with a sex worker who looks younger and healthy and aged between 18. It was my first intercourse with a sex worker and I am worrying about expose to HIV. I have started fearing from the minute where I had broken condom intercourse and she said to me that she does not have HIV and they never allow anyone to have sex without a condom because of fear of getting infected. So there is no need to worry but I cannot believe her and started studying about HIV and its symptoms and I have a feeling of infection because I got red dots in my finger pits and cold and throat infection.I want to know what are the red dots on my finger which I got? I got it tested many times in those three months and got a negative result. I am worrying abt six months test.

 Hi, welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As your sex partner is telling that she do not have any sexually transmitted disease then you don't have to worry much. But still if you feel that you are having some symptoms like fever, body ache, sore throat etc. Then go for ELISA test as soon as possible. The red dots on finger tips may be due to fungal infection or some other skin problem. I hope this information helps you. Thanks.

Hello doctor,I need advice after my second CT chest result. Six months back, I went for a CT scan because I have got chest pain which suddenly comes and goes and I wanted to go for a check-up. The CT showed a right-sided nodule measuring 3 mm and was advised to RPT interval scan in six months. I have done the second CT, the previous nodule is still there and they found another one.In the LLL, a 4 mm nodule is representative of an intrapulmonary lymph node. No suspicious lung lesion. Tiny 3 mm RLL nodule noted. No enlarged lymph nodes. Mild thymic hyperplasia. The partly visualized upper abdominal viscera appear unremarkable. No aggressive bony lesion. They said I do not need to do anything which is strange because there are two nodes now and the second one was not there six months ago. Do I need some kind of medicine therapy to clear my lung from this node or do I need to check if it is growing or not after one year?

1) The nodules are probably benign and unlikely to grow.2) There is no reason to worry about them at present.3) You may be monitored with CT scans every 6 months to see if they change in size or number.4) If they do change, then biopsy of these nodules can be done to determine whether they are cancerous or not.5) At present, you should just continue to follow up with CT scans every 6 months.

Hi doctor,I had sex for the first time. After that, I did not get my periods yet. I went to a gynecologist. She had taken my blood sample and it was negative. But, still I have not gotten my periods and it has been a week ahead. What could be the reason for my late periods?

1. The delay in periods is usually due to stress, anxiety or hormonal imbalance.2. The most common cause of delayed periods is pregnancy.3. So you need to do urine pregnancy test followed by serum beta-ChatDoctor levels.4. You can also go for USG scan to rule out other causes like ovarian cyst, POD etc.5. In case of any doubt you can consult your gynecologist again.

Hello doctor,My friend aged 30 had two drops of phenol mistaking for milk. He vomited and had lot of salt water. Please advice for any side effect.

1. The side effects of phenol include irritation to the eyes, skin rashes, increased heart rate, respiratory depression, nausea, dizziness, headache, sweating, tremors, seizures, coma, and even death.2. Since your friend has already taken it, he should be fine. There is no need to worry about any long-term damage.3. However, if he develops symptoms such as rapid breathing, low blood pressure, chest pain or discomfort, confusion, extreme sleepiness, irregular heartbeats, severe headaches, or vomiting, then he needs immediate medical attention. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,Some mornings during the week I get a quick flash of numbness over my left temple. It is never at night or during the day. It can happen more than once sometimes. If I move, roll over, or get up, I can make it stop. It does not hurt and is very fast. What does this sound like?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. The symptoms that you have mentioned in your query suggest that you might be having some form of brain problem which could be due to many reasons like-anxiety disorder, depression, stress related problems etc. So better to consult a psychiatrist for diagnosis and treatment. Hope this will help you. Wishing you good health. Take care.

Hi doctor,My last USG report showed intrauterine pregnancy with 8 mm gestation sac, no fetal and yolk sac. Last week I had brown discharge with mild lower abdominal pain and was prescribed Susten 200 mg (oral). Now, I am feeling the pain frequently in the right lower abdomen with mild bleeding and pain. It is less when I lie on bed. What to do?

1) Firstly, it seems that your uterus has been ruptured due to which there is bleeding and pain. 2) You should consult your OB/GYN immediately for proper management. 3) The following investigations will be needed to confirm the diagnosis:* Ultrasound scan of pelvis * Hysteroscopy if suspected* Blood tests like CBC, serum Chat Doctor level, thyroid profile, etc.* Urine routine examination4) Treatment will depend upon the cause.

I'm 40 & I've had glandular fever, shingles, influenza and have an autoimmune condition (Hashimoto's disease). I believe I may be more vulnerable than the average person my age to get Coronavirus, due to my weakened immune system? Should I be self isolating? I am ok to do so

1. I don't think your history is enough for me to conclude that you are more likely to contract coronavirus infection.2. There are people who have mild symptoms of common cold with viral upper respiratory tract infections but they will not develop severe illnesses like pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome.3. So if you have no fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, or other unusual symptoms then you need not worry about getting sick from this virus.

Hello doctor,I am a 50-year-old female who has had an elevated ferritin level for many years now. My last ferritin level was 342, 20 days back. My ferritin level has been as high as 390. My TIBC, UIBC, iron, and iron saturation have always been within normal range. My glucose has always ranged from 100 to 104. I was tested for hemochromatosis and results are negative. My doctors keep telling me that we will just watch my ferritin level and I have bloodwork done every six months. I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia last year. I am looking for some answers and some help.

1) Ferritin is a protein which stores iron in body and if its level increases it means there is increased demand of iron, hence more production of ferritin.2) Your iron levels are also fine so no need to worry about iron deficiency or any other problem related to iron.3) Fibromyalgia is a condition where pain can be felt anywhere in body. I think your doctors are rightly treating this condition by monitoring iron levels, but do not ignore your symptoms. 4) You should consult a psychiatrist who might prescribe medicines like pregabalin or duloxetine for fibromyalgia.

Hello doctor,I have had a fishy odor down there since I was in elementary school. I was not sexually active at all either. Just a couple years ago I realized I might have something called bacterial vaginosis. I went to the doctor for it a couple years ago and got prescribed Metronidazole and it did nothing for me. Ever since then I have not really gone to the doctor about it again. I am worried because I have read that BV left untreated can make you infertile. How common is it that this could happen? And do you have any tips for me?

1. You need to get your lab tests done like-blood sugar levels, thyroid profile, prolactin levels, uterus & ovary ultrasound & smear test from gynecologist.2. Your main concern should be to find out the cause of foul smelling discharge.3. Since you have been having this problem since childhood, it is very unlikely that bacterial vaginosis has caused infertility.4. You may take antifungal medication like fluconazole or metronidazole tablets after consulting with your doctor.5. Avoid wearing tight clothing & panties as they will increase the chances of infection.6. Wash genital area with warm water twice daily.7. Use only plain soap (not scented) for bathing.8. Keep your vaginal area clean & Chat Doctor.

Hello doctor,My body is getting severe itching after taking a bath or while sweating. Initially, it used to happen only in winter 4 to 5 years back and then gradually started in rainy days also. Now in summer also while sweating. It is so irritating like that I am going to be mad. I have stopped using soap and also took Clonafit 0.25 mg and Betonix- 10 prescribed by a dermatologist but there is no improvement. Please help me out of this.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As your symptoms are not clear, I would advise you to consult your dermatologist for proper examination. You may need to go for skin biopsy and histopathological examination. In my opinion, it could be due to some fungal infection or allergic reaction. I hope this information helps you. Take care

Hi doctor,I am a 25-year-old male. I do not have any medical history. Been always healthy. For the past 3 months, I have been experiencing this facial tightness which comes pretty often throughout the day with different intensity. The facial tension usually comes half an hour after I leave the bed. The tightness on my face happens to be on both sides of my face but usually more intense on the right. At times, I can feel it from my neck all the way up to my face. As of recent, I have been feeling this slight burning sensation on my chest to my shoulders as well. Prior to this facial tightness, I have been suffering from this burning feeling on the centre of my chest for about a month. It was my first time experiencing heartburn and I thought it was heart related. Went for X-rays and echo heart ultrasound. Everything came out fine. I have a healthy heart. What made the burning chest sensation go away temporarily is lying down, eating, exercising and drinking alcohol. And the weird part is the same thing helps me relieve my facial tightness temporarily is the same thing as that for the burning chest sensation; lying down, eating, exercising and drinking alcohol.Since having this facial tightness, I have paid numerous visits to different doctors, even the neuro-specialist and they all said it was anxiety. The doctors did facial senses test where they take a piece of fine cotton to touch different parts of my face. I had to close my eyes and tell them where the spot is. I have no troubles at all. I did blood test. It came out normal. They told me I do not need to do any scans and that it was merely anxiety and it will go off by itself. I convinced myself that I had anxiety because of the one month heartburn ordeal that I was suffering from. Even though the facial tightness was there, I tried my utmost best to ignore it. I do not think that I have any anxiety in me now as I try not to think of the weird tightness sensation. However, it has been 3 whole months and now I am getting alarmed and worried that it is still here and with newer sensations as I described above. In all honesty, I do feel that the intensity of the facial tension as compared to I first experienced it, is less. However, it is always there even as when I am typing this. I do not see any physical change on my body. Not sure if it is neuro damage. I am worried sick.Hope I can get some form of advice and diagnosis.

1) Burning sensation on your chest could be due to acid reflux disease (GERD). This is a common condition where the gastric juices flows back into esophagus and causes discomfort. 2) Facial tightness can be due to muscle spasm. 3) Neither of these conditions are caused by anxiety. You should visit a physician who would examine you and then decide what tests he wants to order.

Hello doctor,My mother is 75 years old. She had been treated for TB (tuberculosis) of the abdomen as her ultrasound of abdomen finding was thicken bowel loop. In general terms, it was informed about TB in her abdomen. Accordingly, medicines were given to her as per the advise of a local MD doctor. Treatment continued for three months and due to some discontinuation of medicine it relapsed and again she was diagnosed with Thicken bowel loop as per USG. Again treatment continued.However, while undergoing treatment she lost sensation in her legs and complained of losing sensation in her legs and numbness in her feet and was unable to put on slippers in her feet with difficulty in moving. She also complained that while moving she felt as if she was moving on a bed of soft cotton.Subsequent treatment by neuro experts revealed that overdose of treatment of her TB in abdomen resulted in this condition and she was diagnosed for peripheral neuropathy and was advised for biopsy for proper diagnosis. Meanwhile, she fell and hurt herself which was later on diagnosed that her spine at L3 - L4 was compressed due to felling abruptly and accordingly she was advised to take bed rest for three months. Slowly, she recovered from this condition felt pain in her back and was facing another kind of problem as she could not sit for a longer time and preferred to lay down on the bed.Finding her bad condition subsequetly, we also took consultation from other neuro experts at a prestigious institution where she was prescribed Lupivitin one tablet and Sammy one tablet.When condition persisted thereafter she was given Primosa one tablet daily, Neurox one tablet daily, Maxglobin 50 mg one tablet and Defart 6 mg.But, whenever she was given medicine her condition further aggravated. After about six months of treatment by the neuro expert, she has now been referred to the department of immunology for their advice. Meanwhile, we also took advice from a rheumatologist who diagnosed a kind of arthritis and started treating accordingly. He also started the course of Defzacort (steroid) along with other medicines. The steroid was prescribed with a decreasing dose per week from 60 mg per day to 6 mg per day.However, after taking about two months of steroid course her condition deteriorated and had severe breathlessness. Her blood sugar level also shot up and ultimately she was hospitalized and the treatment of steroid withdrawn. After 15 days of treatment at the hospital she recovered to her previous condition. But, her neuro problem of numbness in her legs and loss of sensation in legs still continues. Please help.

 Thank you very much for your question. I am sorry to hear about your mothers health problems but I think I can be of assistance. Your mother has suffered a lot and it seems like she may have chronic inflammation or an autoimmune disease. I would suggest seeing a rheumatologist for a thorough evaluation and management. You mentioned she has arthritis, however, I would like to know what type? This will determine how best to treat her. The use of steroids should be done carefully, and her dosage should be monitored closely. I hope my response helps.

Hi doctor,I am suffering from a mild cold and severe clogging of ears. I am taking Afrin spray for an hour and one pill of Sudafed. I developed a similar condition of cold and sinus infection before six months. I had severe clogging of ears. I was given Amoxicillin for five days and Prednisone 5 mg. My ENT doctor examined my ears and told me that there was no issue with the eardrum. He diagnosed it as eustachian tube issue. Please help.

1) You should take steam inhalation to clear your ear canal.2) Take a decongestant like Xylometazoline nasal spray.3) Avoid hot and spicy food.4) Use saline nasal Chat Doctor. 5) Do warm compresses over your forehead.6) Take rest and avoid exposure to cold air.7) Take plenty of fluids so that your body can flush out the excessive fluid.8) For symptomatic relief, you may use antibiotics like levofloxacin, azithromycin or doxycycline.9) If the symptoms persist even after 3-4 days then consult an ENT specialist. Hope this helps you.

Hi doctor,My wife missed her periods and we doubt she is pregnant. Our first kid is just 1 year old now and it was a Cesarean. We are not in a position to have a second child now. Her LMP was 22nd of last month. I read that Mifepristone can induce abortion. Is it a safe drug? Do we have to consult doctor for taking this drug? What are all the possible side effects? Is that drug 100 percent reliable? Is there any other options? Whether this drug is available without doctor\s prescription? Thank you.

1. No, mifepristone is not available without doctors prescription. 2. It is a safe medication, but as with any medications there may be some side effects which include nausea, vomiting, headache, diarrhea etc. These symptoms usually subside within 48 hours after ingestion.3. Yes, it is 100% reliable if taken under supervision by a trained gynecologist.4. There are many other options for termination of early pregnancy like medical methods (like MTP kit) or surgical methods (like suction evacuation). But these need to be done under proper guidance of a qualified Gynecologist.

Hi doctor,I have a question for my mother. My mother is 50 years old. She complains of episodic, sudden loss of weight bearing ability on the left Achilles tendon. This has resulted in two major falls, which resulted in trauma. These are present for past few months and have become more frequent in the last month. She also has pain in her knees bilaterally, which has been attributed to osteoarthritis. She also complains of hip pain associated with swelling and difficulty in standing, lying and changing sides while sleeping. There is episodic stiffness present in the shoulders, which causes some discomfort in raising arms above the shoulder level. She is taking Bisoprolol 5 mg and Amlodipine 5 mg for high BP and it is well-controlled. She has no history of any allergy. She has kidney stones and so occasional pain in the lumbar area. She used to get constipation frequently. She was hospitalized four times for normal vaginal deliveries and once for abortion. She is monogamous with her husband. She has a positive family history of hypertension in mother, CAD in father, mother and brother and uterine cancer in mother. She has a history of menorrhagia and cycles have become more irregular now. Then, diagnostic D and C was performed last year, which was normal. She will not smoke or drink. She sleeps 4 to 6 hours daily and snores at night.

 Hi, Thanks for your query. I am Chat Doctor. I understand your concern. The symptoms you mentioned are suggestive of possible involvement of muscles in the lower limb. It is best to consult an orthopedic surgeon who can examine her and give treatment as required. In addition to medicines she may require physical therapy including exercises to improve strength and mobility. I hope this answer helps you. Please write back to me if you need any further clarification.

Hello doctor,A few months before, I developed a gastric issue that required treatment with PPIs. Soon into using the drugs I developed headaches, dizziness, and nausea. I changed the type of PPI three times but the symptoms persisted. The symptoms included a feeling of pressure above my right ear and behind my right eye. Later, I came off the PPIs and after using over the counter headache painkillers for three days the severity of the headaches eased. But the feeling of pressure remains to this day on the right side of the face. I often feel heavy head or even light-headed with a slight dizziness, often as if I am hung over. The symptoms come and go, but are there every day for differing periods of time. And the constant is this feeling of slight pressure on the right side of my head above the ear and extending sometimes down to the cheek and behind the right eye.

 HI, thanks for your question at Chat Doctor. I can understand your concern. You have got a typical picture of migraine which is a common problem nowadays. Migraine is a disorder in blood vessels supplying brain. It causes severe headache along with other symptoms like nausea, vomiting, sensitivity to noise, bright light etc. In some people it may be associated with visual disturbances. It usually occurs on one side of the head. It comes and goes. It can be due to stress also. You should take medicine to control your headache. I would suggest you to consult a neurologist to get proper diagnosis and management. Hope this helps. Regards

Hello doctor,I would like to ask what is the likelihood that my partner who performs oral sex on me has trench mouth or acute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis? He has no bad breath and he was able to have normal food. Can people with trench mouth have no bad breath and is able to eat normal food?

1) your boyfriend had no gum bleeding, so it is unlikely that he has Trenchmouth (necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis).2) The symptoms of Trenchmouth are gumbleeding, pain, swelling in the gums, difficulty in eating and talking, etc.3) People with Trenchmouth may not be able to eat normal food because of severe pain.4) But if your boyfriend does not have any other symptom than he can be treated for gingivitis only.5) You should visit a dentist and get him examined.6) He will need scaling and polishing of his teeth and gums. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,My son has developed anxiety symptoms about four years ago. They came completely out of the blue. He was with someone who now has heart palpitations, sweaty palms and feet, and lightheadedness sitting in the living room. We ran a battery of tests when it first happened including TSH, EKG, lung scans, blood panels, etc. and everything was normal. So we went down the path of anxiety. Four years later, the symptoms continued. As my son now has a terrible fear of doctors, we tried a home blood test to get a full thyroid panel. I have attached the results.The blood work came back normal. Low normal TSH, but low normal T4 and lower normal free T4 and free T3. There is nothing that shows an abnormality. However, his urine test showed moderately low iodine and slightly low selenium. I have read that abnormalities in these measures could cause thyroid problems. What am I wondering is if these two indicators are worth further exploration with an endocrinologist knowing that going to the doctor will cause my son a severe panic.Also, is it possible that low iodine could have been a temporary diet thing and it is masking the signs of hyperthyroidism in the blood work? He has all of the symptoms of someone with hyperthyroidism. On a side note, I am hypothyroid, my sister is hypothyroid and my two nieces had Hashimoto\s with my younger niece having thyroid cancer and got her thyroid removed at age of 22. So everyone on my side of the family has thyroid issues. We were wondering if you could please give us some guidance. Looking to see if we need to eliminate thyroid as a possible cause of his symptoms or if it is worth further pursuit.

 Hi, Thanks for writing in. The blood levels of thyroid hormones are not always accurate in people with anxiety. In such cases, an ultrasound scan of the neck can be done which can help in differentiating between a normal thyroid gland and enlargement of the thyroid gland due to inflammation or goiter. In case of enlargement of the thyroid gland, the treatment is simple. It consists of taking anti-inflammatory medicines like steroids along with thyroxine. This is called as subclinical hyperthyroidism. In case of thyroiditis, the thyroid function tests may come back normal but there might be some changes seen on thyroid ultrasound. These are transient conditions and resolve over a period of time without any specific treatment. Do discuss the above with your doctor. Hope this helps.

Hello doctor,I think a spider went up to my right nostril yesterday morning and I am worried about it and frightened. Since then, my nose has been blocked and sore.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum.  As you describe your symptoms, I suspect that you have developed allergic rhinitis due to some allergen in the environment. You can take antihistamine like cetirizine for symptomatic relief. Consult an ENT specialist if no improvement. Hope this helps out. Take care.

Hello doctor,My symptoms are extreme nausea, headache (mainly right posterior), and very stiff neck. I started with a severe middle ear infection on the right side. Does my MRI show any evidence of mastoiditis, meningitis or a subdural empyema?

 Hi welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your symptoms, it looks like you are suffering from viral fever, which is common during winter season. The other possibility could be migraine. You should consult your physician for diagnosis and treatment. For now take plenty of fluids. Avoid taking cold water immediately after meals. Take care. Hope this answers your query.

Hello doctor,I am seriously facing acne pimples problem. Sometimes they occur on my face when I masturbate. If I use Mometasone, it gives a good result.Is it okay to continue this?

 Hi, As per your complaint it seems that you have developed acne due to hormonal imbalance. You can take isotretinoin as it is effective in treating acne vulgarism. It should be taken under guidance of dermatologist only. You should also avoid stress and anxiety. Take diet rich in vitamins A, C, E. Apply topical antibiotics like clindamycin or erythromycin. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hi doctor,My mother has a tumor-like thing in her shoulder. It is like a soft pulpy thing. Right now it is small and not causing much pain. When she works too much, she feels a weight on her shoulder and a mild pain like she has lifted a weight. Is that something cancerous?

 Hi, Dear, Thanks for your query to Chat Doctor virtual Clinic. I studied your query in all its details. I understood your concerns. -In my opinion- This tumor-like thing appears to be a lipoma or some benign tumor. The pain associated with it could be due to compression of nerve endings by this tumor. So, it should be removed surgically at an early stage before it grows more and causes more symptoms. Hope this would resolve your worry. Welcome for any further query in this regard. Wish you fast recovery from this problem. Have a Good Day. Chat Doctor.

Hi doctor,I am 18 years old. My problem is the teeth has become white for the past few years. The back portion of the teeth has become dark or black. Teeth are quite creamy. Often a bad smell spreads out from my mouth. My mother also suffers from this problem. I use whitening toothpaste but all are in vain. So, please doctor help me and give me a suggestion.

 Hi... Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. You have already mentioned that your teeth have become white for last few years. This could be because of age factor. You can try to brush your teeth twice a day using normal fluoride toothpaste. Do not forget to clean the tongue also. Maintain good oral hygiene. Use floss every day. Take soft food like milk products. Avoid hard food items. Do not bite nuts with your front teeth. If you feel pain while chewing then visit dentist. Hope this will help you. Wish you good health. Regards

Hello doctor,My 4 year old son has some kind of rashes from last week. We visited a pediatrician who suggested a dermatologist consultation. I have attached images of the rashes and the prescription. We noticed that it increases in the evenings. Every morning he wakes up with clear skin and during evenings it worsens. He had a fever for two days around the same time it started. He keeps scratching himself. The severity has reduced, but it is not completely gone.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As your child is having such skin lesions, there can be many causes like viral infection, allergic reaction, etc. You should take him to a Dermatologist for complete examination, and accordingly treatment will be given. As these lesions are increasing at night, so it seems to be due to allergy or viral infection. Consult your Physician / Dermatologist for further management. Hope this helps you. Take care.

Hello doctor,I sustained an injury recently and I had an X-ray. The X-ray shows I have an intraarticular fracture of the right fifth metacarpal with significant ulnar displacement for consideration of ORIF. I went to my local hospital and they did a CT Scan. They sent me home and said to wait for their call to be seen at the Fracture Clinic. I have only buddy taping on my little and next finger. People are telling me it should be strapped or cast right away. I am worried.

 Hi there! Thanks for writing your query here. I would like to tell you that in case of any bony injury, it is always better to get yourself examined by a physician and not just rely on what people say. Also, as per my experience, if you do not require a surgery then a simple splint will suffice. In case if you need a surgical intervention then a plaster cast is required. So, you can wait till you get examined by the orthopedic surgeon. Hope this information was useful to you. Wishing you good health.

Hello doctor,My fiancee had a bleeding on the 25th of last month. It lasted for about four to five days. She then got dengue and on the 14th of this month, had mild spotting for a day and a half. The doctor said it could be the dengue causing the spotting. She has not gotten her periods yet. I have read that there could be bleeding during pregnancy as well.

 Hi, Thanks for writing in. Bleeding can occur in pregnancy due to many reasons like miscarriage, ectopic pregnancies etc. and should be investigated thoroughly. Dengue also causes bleeding from time to time. But if she is still bleeding after 3 weeks or so, she needs to get investigated further. The period might become irregular during pregnancy. The bleeding might be due to some other cause than dengue. So, better to see a gynecologist and take opinion regarding the same.

Hello doctor,I recently have noticed a slight blurriness in my right eye. It is only noticeable when I close my left eye, and so I am not sure how long it has taken for this to develop. I am going to see an optometrist and doctor early next week but am currently on the road for work.My main question is that when I look out of the corner of my right eye the blurriness seems to subside and I can see usually. I am wondering if this is a good sign. I have been dealing with severe anxiety the past couple months, and I am worried that might have raised my blood pressure enough to hurt my eyesight.Eyesight when looking with both eyes seems to be normal. I have also noticed floaters in my eyes. Kindly help.

 Hi, Thanks for writing to us. I appreciate your concern regarding your eye sight. I would like to tell you that the blurring vision which you are experiencing may be due to increased intraocular pressure (IOP) or corneal opacities. You must get your eyes examined by an ophthalmologist as soon as possible. I hope this information has been both informative and helpful for you. In case of any doubt, I will be available for follow-up queries. Wishing you good health.

Hello doctor,I am a 23-year-old female. I am 70 kg, 5\3" feet.I am currently experiencing shortness of breath, it started a week ago and never went away even though I am taking lagundi or herbal cough medicine 500 mg three times a day after meal.I also feel like I have a lot of phlegm that I cannot release. It just feels heavy on my right chest that passes through my back. I am having paranoia on having COVID-19, but I am afraid to get checked because I might actually get it from the hospital. Please help.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com. Forum. I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Intoy M.D., a general surgeon, and cancer specialist. Reading your query, in my opinion you seem to suffer from Pneumonia most likely due to viral cause as you had cold, cough, fever etc. I advise you to consult pulmonologist who is going to examine physically and examine with X-ray chest PA view. He may prescribe Antibiotics if needed. You should start treatment soon. Hopefully this will resolve your problem. If not then biopsy of lung tissue for histopathology examination may be required. I would be happy to answer any further query. Wish you good health. Take care.

Hi doctor,My wisdom tooth present in the lower left region is growing. I have a sufficient space for it to grow, and it is growing straight. I do not have pain in the tooth and half of the tooth is poking out now. But I have trouble in opening my mouth fully.

1) Yes, the tooth will erupt as long as there is enough space for it to come through.2) Pain or discomfort while opening your mouth is usually due to inflammation caused by the tooth coming through the gums.3) The tooth has already erupted half way and should complete its growth soon.4) Do not worry about the tooth as there is no need to remove it unless it causes severe pain or interferes with eating or speaking. Hope this helps.

Hi doctor,I am a 20-year-old female, height 166 cm, and weight 65 kg. I had two I-pills in one month. After the first I-pill, I got withdrawal bleeding after five days. It lasted for four days and the flow was normal. After 14 days of this incident, I again had protected sexual intercourse and took another I-pill after 36 hours. But this time even after 11 days, there is no withdrawal bleeding. Is this because of hormonal imbalance or pregnancy?

1) You have taken i-pill twice with a gap of 7 weeks. This is not recommended by WHO.2) Withdrawal bleeding occurs within 8 to 10 days of taking I-Pill. If it has been more than that, then it may be due to hormonal imbalance (increased progesterone levels).3) In such case, you need to consult your gynecologist for proper evaluation and treatment.

Hi doctor,I have been treated with for a yeast infection and given antibiotics last month end and then last week had another infection (milky like discharge no smell). Is it advisable to wait for one month to be seen by my gynecologist or go to an urgent care right away?

1) yeast infections can occur again if not cured properly.2) It is better to get examined by your doctor and take proper treatment at the earliest to avoid complications.3) You may also need blood tests such as CBC, ESR, FBS, PPS, etc., as well as culture and sensitivity test of the vaginal swab to confirm the diagnosis.4) The best way to prevent recurrent yeast infections is to keep the area clean and Chat Doctor. 5) Avoid wearing tight-fitting panties, especially those made of synthetic materials.6) Take more of probiotic food items like yogurt, buttermilk, curd, etc.

Hello doctor,My father recently had a heart attack and a stroke. Then had two heart valves repaired and they want to put a stent in. His list of medications does not seem to make sense and although he loves his cardiologist. I do not think he is paying enough attention. I am in the medical field and although I am not a pharmacist or an M.D. I know a little bit about adverse drug reactions. Tell me if this makes sense to you.Metoprolol tartrate 25 mg half pill twice a day, Potassium Chloride 20 mEq once daily, Losartan potassium 25 mg once daily, Warfarin sodium 5 mg once daily, Atorvastatin 20 mg, Digozin 25 mcg once daily and Furosemide 40 mg once daily.I need to know if these medications are fine to take all in one day and if so, I would like to split them into two times a day according to the reactions. I feel that so many medications doing the same thing is redundant and unnecessary and causing problems. Please help me.

 Hi, Thanks for writing in. As you have mentioned your fathers history with heart attack and stroke, it seems that he has got coronary artery disease which means blockages in coronary vessels supplying blood to heart muscle. This can lead to chest pain (angina) while exercise or stress. Since your father has been given metoprolol and warfarin, it suggests that he is at risk of clot formation either due to heart attack or atherosclerosis. The other medicines like potassium, losartan, statins etc. are used to control high blood pressure as well as diabetes. These medicines also reduce the chance of further blockage in coronary vessels and hence prevention of future heart attacks. Hence, it is necessary to continue all these medicines. You may discuss with your father's treating doctor regarding splitting the doses of some of the medicines if required.

Hello doctor,I have got an ear itching five days before and went to a doctor. The doctor has told me that my ear got affected with fungus and prescribed Otinex ear drops. I continued that for three days. Initially, I got pain and liquid discharge from ears. Now, pain has gone but slight liquid discharge and ear block is still there. Kindly provide suggestions.

1. If the pain is subsided then no need to worry about the infection as it will take some time to clear up the area. 2. Continue using Otinex ear drops until you feel better.3. If you are not getting relief within one week of use then consult your doctor & get examined.4. It can be due to bacterial or viral infections.5. To confirm the diagnosis you may require taking a swab test from the ear canal to rule out any kind of infection like bacteria, virus etc. Hope this helps you. Thanks

Hello doctor,So, I have hives, also known as chronic urticaria. Basically, I break out when the climate I am in is hot, or when I exercise. I visited my family doctor and he told me to get a blood test and he also gave me a Cetirizine (Zyrtec) prescription which is 20 mg. I have been taking this medication for about four days now, and I still get these itchy hives. If I were to get a blood test, will the doctor be able to prescribe the right medication, so I can get rid of these annoying hives?

1st thing to do is to confirm if you have allergies or not. You should avoid exposure to the substances that cause allergy. If they are airborne, then try to keep away from them. For food-based allergies, you need to identify what type of food causes problem. That can be done by doing patch tests. For skin related allergies, patch testing can help to identify the substance causing problems. But without knowing the exact substance causing the problem, it is difficult to treat.

Hello doctor,My friend underwent a USG and she was detected with 6-week pregnancy and then she took Mifepristone and then next day four Misoprostol (mouth dissolving). Now it has been more than 24 hours. She is bleeding continuously with clots and having severe pain. Kindly suggest what to do now for pain and bleeding?

1. Bleeding with clots can be due to retained products of conception or implantation site infection or both. 2. In either case you need to get an ultrasound done and if needed go for D&C.3. Do not take any medicines without consulting your doctor as they may worsen the condition.4. I hope this helps.

Hello doctor,I have hydrocele for so many years. But as it is not showing any problem so I left it till now. But now I want to go for hydrocele surgery. Also, I want to know any other methods except surgery which can be done to finish hydrocele. Now I am also going to gym and doing some physical exercise there. Is there any problem with it? My age is 27 years, height is 5\10" and weight is 83 kg.

1) Hydrocele is not an issue of concern if your scrotal swelling does not cause any pain or discomfort.2) You may undergo surgical correction but if you do not require it, you may continue with your routine activities.3) Exercise will help in reducing the swelling.4) Please consult a surgeon for further details.

Hello doctor,I have protected sex with stranger and after that I get inflammation in urinary tract. Should I get worried about it?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. I am sorry for your problem. You have not mentioned whether you had taken any precautions like condom or anything else. So it is difficult to comment. But if you do not have any other symptoms then there is no need to worry much. Just take some anti-inflammatory medications, and you will be fine. If you have painful urination, burning sensation etc., then you should consult a urologist, who can examine you and treat accordingly. If you require more of my help in this aspect, please use this URL. http://goo.gl/aYW2pR. Make sure that you include every minute detail possible. Hope this answers your query. Any further clarifications feel free to ask. Take care.

Hello doctor,I had a back to back unprotected sex with my partner for three days in this month and my expected period date was six days later. I have taken unwanted 72 on the third day morning after having breakfast. But, still, my periods have not yet started. Can you please help me out with the reason behind that?

1. Hi, I understand your concern. The chances of conception are high if you had intercourse around ovulation time (14th-20th day). So there is no need to worry too much about it as long as you had protected intercourse during fertile window. Unwanted 72 should be effective enough to delay your menses by at least 6 weeks. If you did not get periods by now then you can do urine pregnancy test. Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I was having spotting most of the month, then heavy bleeding for two days. I then passed what looked like grey muscle and suddenly no more blood. What does that mean or what could it be?

1. It is not possible to say anything without examining you.2. But this looks like endometrial polyp.3. Get an ultrasound abdomen done to see the cause of the bleed.4. If it is endometrial polyp, get the surgery done as early as possible.5. Take progesterone pill after your periods to prevent further growth of the polyp.6. If there is any other cause, then also the treatment will depend upon the cause.

Hi doctor,My son is six years old. He has nasal blockage for the past two weeks. Now, he has developed a fever. His throat and tonsils are swollen. We took him to a doctor. The doctor prescribed him Benadryl 5 ml and Crocin DS 7.5 ml. He has not given any antibiotics. Is it fine? Please suggest.

1) nasal blockage2) fever3) swollen throat & tonsils4) no antibiotic - this indicates that its viral infection with secondary bacterial infection. Since your child is having nasal blockade, I would advise you to give him steam inhalation and apply vapor rub on his chest and palms. This will help him to get rid of cold symptoms faster. For fever, do not use paracetamol or ibuprofen as they can cause gastritis and bleeding. Use Tylenol (acetaminophen).

Hello doctor,My vision was crystal clear this morning. I just woke up from a nap, and the vision in my left eye is blurry. It has not cleared up in the past half an hour. Twice over the years, this has happened, and it normalized over a few hours, but I am in a jungle now. So, I would like to err on the side of caution. I have had previous retinal detachments.

1) You should see your ophthalmologist for a thorough examination and evaluation.2) There are many causes of sudden loss of vision in one eye, including retina problems such as retinal detachment or bleeding.3) Your history of prior retinal detachment makes me think that there is something wrong with the retina again and it needs prompt treatment.4) This can be treated by laser surgery or if needed, a vitrectomy (surgical removal of the vitreous gel).5) I recommend seeing your ophthalmologist soon for a proper evaluation.

Hello doctor,Last night, I fell from my bike on my right side as it got slipped while driving. My right hand and right shoulder directly hit the road and cause severe pain on the right side of the abdomen. A local doctor prescribed some medicine and I got relieved from my side pain. I went for an x-ray of the right chest, it was normal. But after 36 hours I am having pain in the right shoulder (scapula) and while sitting, or arising out of bed, or moving hand on the upper side the pain increases a lot. Is it normal or need better medical assistance?

 Thank you for asking Chat Doctor.  Yes, It is normal to have such symptoms after trauma. The pain in your neck and shoulder can be due to ligament sprain of the cervical spine. You should consult your physician/orthopaedician for further evaluation. For now, you may take analgesic like ibuprofen for pain relief. I hope this will help you. Let me know if there is any other followup questions. Thanks.

Hi doctor,My lab tests are as follows:Seven months ago: blood glucose of 105 mg/dl, GTT one hour 160 mg/dl, two hours 118 mg/dl, morning insulin 6.2 \xce\xbcU/ml, HbA1c 5.2 %, A1 6.1 %. This month: BG 110 mg/dl, GTT one hour 184 mg/dl, two hours 115 mg/dl, morning insulin 5.3 \xce\xbcU/ml. Every other blood test within normal ranges. I am male 32 years old 1.86 cm 93 kg 13 to 14 % body fat athletic with healthy nutrition habits. No history of diabetes in the family. Could I be having cancer in pancreas judging from the insulin values you are seeing? I have had many years to do a blood test and with this random one seven months ago. I was told by my doctor that I had to keep monitoring my blood glucose since I could develop diabetes later on, and since I have never had a problem with blood sugar as a kid and no family history of diabetes, I was wondering what might be going on cause insulin levels dropped from my last test and since my diet was pretty much same with healthy choices why is this happening. My doctor for the last seven months kept telling me to calm down and that I do not have anything cause stressing is bad for my blood glucose too. Should I be telling him to get a pancreas MRI done?

1. You need to know that there is only one type of Cancer which is Pancreatic carcinoma that can cause high Insulin levels. 2. The reason your doctor is asking you not to worry about this and also not to go for any investigations is because he knows that if he does an investigation then if it comes out positive there will be a lot of stress and anxiety and this itself will affect your blood sugars and diabetic control. 3. Now, the fact that you have been told to monitor blood sugar and there has been a drop in your fasting Blood Sugar levels (and insulin levels) means that you should definitely go for some investigations like CBC, Urine routine, Ultrasound abdomen. 4. Please meet your treating Doctor and discuss all these points, otherwise you may end up with more problems than now.

Hi doctor,I have noticed that my first molar is loose. I keep pushing it with my tongue and clenching a bit against it and I just noticed that it has become loose little more. I have my wisdom teeth and I think it might be applying pressure forward on these teeth. I read in a book that day grinding can cause a teeth to loosen, which is easier to treat. There is no pain and the teeth look healthy. I always clench my teeth but it never caused any looseness.

 Hi there, your symptoms of loosened first molar indicate that you have an open bite. It means that either the upper or lower jaw is too short or your dental arches (upper/lower) are not in harmony. The most common causes for this condition to occur are improper growth of jaws or a genetic predisposition. Treatment options include orthodontics (braces), surgery, or a combination of both. You should consult an orthodontist to evaluate your case and discuss treatment options. Hope this answers your question, if you have further queries feel free to contact me again.

Hello doctor,We have a 9-month-old baby girl. She has five brown marks, two of them are 2 cm size and the other three of 0.5 cm. They are irregular in shape. Initial two marks appeared when she was 3 months old and now when she is 9 months three more for added that are comparatively light and 0.5 cm of size. Are these birthmarks? Will they fade with the time? Do we need to take any precautions so that they do not increase or get added further? Can we also provide any medication to cure them?

1. Yes, these are birthmarks which will slowly fade away over a period of time.2. No treatment is required apart from cosmetic treatment if you want it to be removed completely.3. You can apply a cream containing HY Chat Doctor. 4. Sunscreens should be used to prevent sun exposure as this may cause darkening of the marks. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I have red raised rashes in my legs and arms. I used Hydrocortisone cream, but there are no changes in it. Please help.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. This can be due to an allergic reaction to some food or medicine. You should take antihistamines for relief. Consult your dermatologist to confirm diagnosis. Hope you found the answer helpful. If you need any clarification / have doubts / have additional questions / have follow-up questions, then please do not hesitate in asking again. I will be happy to answer your questions. In the future, for continuity of care, I encourage you to contact me directly in Chat Doctor at http://bit.ly/ask

Hello doctor, I have been going to a dentist about a tooth that is sore. They started a root canal but then did not finish. I have gone back several times and every time they open up the tooth and insert medicine. My tooth is in agony right now. I am just wondering if this is a standard procedure during a root canal? Should not the dentist remove the nerves so I am not in so much pain? Or is it the standard procedure to fight the infection first and then remove the nerves?

1) The treatment of choice for an infected tooth is a root canal therapy. During the course of the root canal treatment, the dentist will be able to determine whether the nerve is viable or not. If the nerve has died (necrosis), he/she will remove the dead tissue and leave the healthy tissue alone.2) If the nerve is viable, the dentist will clean out the canals and fill them with a sealer. Root canal therapy is a very successful treatment option and once done, there should be no further discomfort.3) After the root canal treatment is complete, the tooth should be restored with a crown. Please do not hesitate to contact us again if you require any additional information.

Hi doctor,I am 19 years old. I have pain in the corner of my left eye for the past one year. I went to the doctor, and he gave me Sterdex. I used it and felt better. My pain went away. After a few months, I started to have pain, but it was not so severe as the first time. I wear glasses and lenses, and I am treating my eye allergy with Chibro Cadron 5 ml, and for dry eyes, I use Fluidabak after taking the lens. Whenever I do my yearly eye checkup, my eyesight gets worse because of the pain in the corner, and I am scared about my sight. I do not know whether I use an appropriate medicine to my eye. Whenever I consult the doctor, he gives me the same medication. Please help me.

 Hi there, thanks for writing in. The eye pain is likely due to irritants like dust or pollen. It can also be due to inflammation of the conjunctiva which is called conjunctivitis. You need to get your eyes examined by an Ophthalmologist who will examine your eyes thoroughly. He/she may prescribe some more medicines depending upon what he finds. You may need to take antibiotics, anti-inflammatory medications or even steroids if necessary.

Hi doctor,I just had an EGD with biopsy, polypectomy. It showed a hianal hernia 2 cm. I am attaching photos. The doctor took biopsies, said no cancer. I have had breast cancer in the past. I am having pain in the chest when I swallow, and sternum today. Will that subside? Is it from the bleeding? And, can you recommend the best pill to take for this pain, taking Pantoprazole now? And what should I take for this problem, what should I eat? (Can you assure there is no cancer)?

1) Pain in your sternum may be due to inflammation of the esophagus or stomach caused by the bleeding. You need to get evaluated by your physician/surgeon for possible causes. 2) No, it does not mean that you do not have cancer. As per my knowledge, if you have undergone surgery for any cancer then you are at risk of recurrence. Please consult your oncologist/surgeon to rule out any chance of recurrent cancer.

Hello doctor,I am 29-years-old male. I am 173 cm in height and weighs about 68 kg. I would like to know about testosterone injection if I took it in a small dosage weekly will that help my appearance to be more manly? Even that my appearance is manly but in general my physical built is small compared to other men, my face, hands, legs are small also my voice is feminine.My testosterone level is good. My body is too hairy and I did a testosterone test everything was normal. I know there is a lot of studies that say that testosterone can lead to depression but actually at the age of 21 I was suffering from depression and I took testosterone for a month (to gain muscles), my mood was very good and it actually helped my depression. Also, my sexual life and erection are very good, I do masturbate once or twice every two days and I get an erection easily.Kindly help me with these questions:Will testosterone injections help me be more manly? What is the recommended dose that I have to take monthly? What are testosterone injections made from, are they made from an animal source? Will testosterone affects my personality? Do I have to take it for life? What if after some period I decided to stop will I loose what I gained?

 Hi, Testosterone is not the only hormone which helps to improve masculinity. It needs to be used along with other hormones like HGH, DHEA etc. Testosterone has to be taken on regular basis as per doctors advice. It should not be taken for long term use as it may cause side effects like acne, oily skin, increase in facial hair growth, chest hair growth etc. It is advisable to use testosterone gel rather than injecting it. You can discuss with your doctor regarding this. Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,Is there a difference in alcoholic and non-alcoholic mouthwash. Which is better at combating bad breath due to smoking than alcoholic? I am in a hygiene school and want to know whether or not to recommend non-alcohol mouthwash for the complaints of bad breath from smoking. I have recommended tongue scraping, alcoholic mouthwash. Anyways, they are not going to stop smoking or drinking. I was looking at a way to have them not dry out the tissues, but stopping the obvious factors do not seem to be an option.

 Hi, Thanks for writing in. Mouthwash containing chlorhexidine (0.12%) is very effective in controlling halitosis caused by smoking. It has antibacterial properties that help in control of bacteria causing bad breath. It also helps in keeping your gums healthy and prevents plaque formation. Alcohol free mouthwashes can cause irritation to the mucosa lining the mouth and may even worsen bad breath. So, it is advisable to use chlorhexidine mouthwash if you smoke. You may need to rinse with this mouthwash for about 3 months to see visible results.

Hello doctor,I have been diagnosed with mild hereditary spherocytosis. My eyes still yellow. Is it unlikely hematologist who diagnosed me three years ago misdiagnosed? I do not doubt he knows his stuff. More about me getting worried. I lost weight a couple of months ago. I went very yellow in the eyes. I have always felt tired. I have had gallbladder out four years ago, I bruise easily, I do get little red skin dots at times, menstrual cycles can be irregular and spleen slightly enlarged.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. I understand your concern, as you have mentioned that you have hereditary spherocytosis. It is an inherited disorder of the blood cells which causes them to be abnormal or defective. The most common symptom is jaundice (yellowing of the whites of the eyes). Other symptoms include anemia, fatigue, easy bruising, frequent nosebleeds, bleeding gums, dark urine, light colored stools, abdominal pain, fever, headache, joint pains, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, numbness and tingling sensation in limbs, rashes, seizures, severe itching, stiff neck, swelling of the legs, and weight loss. Kindly consult your physician for further management. Hope this helps you. Take care.

Hi doctor,My height is 5\4", and my weight is 61 kilogram. My ovary is bulky with right ovary volume 11.5 cc and left ovary volume 11.2 cc. I am suffering from PCOD. I am under treatment for the past three months. Can I get pregnant naturally?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you have mentioned your ovarian volume is normal, but as it is not mentioned whether it is in terms of ml or cm3, so I would suggest you to repeat the ultrasound examination after one month. Also, there are many other factors like age, body mass index (BMI), hormonal imbalance, endometrial thickness etc. which need to be evaluated before planning for natural conception. So better to consult gynecologist and discuss all these things. Hope this will help you. Wishing you good health. Thank you.

Hi doctor,I am suffering from an infection on my penis. I am using Clotrimazole cream over the infection. Once I miss applying cream a day, the penis gets infected with red patches, pus-filled boils and there is severe itching. My partner is not affected by any problem though we are sexually active. I am not diabetic when I saw my blood test. Kindly help me to cure it. I am frustrated with my problem. Kindly give me medical advice.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your intimate relationship with your partner is normal, so you can be sure that she has no infection either. The symptoms you have described seem to be due to fungal or bacterial infections of the skin. You need to apply antifungal or antibiotic creams as prescribed by your doctor. In addition, you need to wash your genital area with warm water twice daily. Avoid sexual intercourse until your symptoms clear up completely. Hope this helps. Take care.

Hello doctor,I wanted to know if you could answer one question for me. I experienced an episode that lasted roughly about two to three minutes where I felt that I could not seem to catch my breath and it felt as if my heart had stopped beating. I checked my heart rate roughly three minutes after the incident and it was at 60 bpm and my oxygen was at 99 % under two weeks ago. I had a routine 24 tape which was clear (ectopic beats picked up but were benign). I suffer from anxiety and panic attacks. However, they generally come on during stressful situations. Could this be a panic attack symptom? I also wanted to add that this happened during intercourse (I am a 35-year-old male, height is 174 cm and weight is 100 kg). I look forward to your response and suggestions.

 Hi there, thanks for writing in. The symptoms you have mentioned are suggestive of a panic attack. It may occur during sexual arousal or orgasm due to increased blood flow to the brain. During erection, the penis is filled with blood and causes pressure changes in the bladder leading to urinary retention. Sometimes, this can cause sudden pressure on the abdomen leading to chest pain and breathing difficulty. So, in short, these symptoms may be related to any of the above reasons. But, since you have been diagnosed with ectopic beats, I would strongly recommend going for further investigations. ECG, stress test, echo etc. should be done to rule out cardiac problems. A psychiatrist consultation would help treat any associated anxiety issues. Hope this helps.

Hello doctor,Can you please help me understand my test results? My platelet count is at 1314, and my doctors are unable to give me a specific reason for it.

 Welcome to Chat Doctor.com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno M.D., and I will be answering your query. Platelets are small cells in the blood that form clots. They are formed in bone marrow. There can be many reasons why the platelet count may decrease or increase. The most common causes of low platelet count include deny Chat Doctor.  You should discuss this with your doctor in detail so that he/she can investigate further. Hope you find this information useful. If you want any clarification / have doubts / have additional questions / have follow-up questions, then please do not hesitate in asking again. I will be happy to answer your questions. Best wishes.

Hi doctor,I am a known diabetic for the past 15 years. 20 days ago, my HbA1c was 9.83. I am 54 years old and my weight is 87 kg. My medications are Metformin 500 mg, Hcl 1500 mg, Istavel 100 mg and Glaritus Insulin 30 units. Even then the sugar levels are 246, 265 and 277 after every three hours today. My creatinine, SGOT, SGPT, T3 and TSH are normal.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As per your history, it seems that you have not been taking proper control over your blood glucose level. With such high values of blood glucose level, you can be having severe complications like retinal damage, kidney damage, nerve damage etc. You should immediately consult your physician and get his opinion regarding the same. He will examine you clinically and may ask you to go for certain investigations. He may also change your treatment according to the reports of tests. Meanwhile, you can take frequent small meals instead of heavy meals. Avoid junk foods, oily foods, fried foods, sweets, chocolates, aerated drinks, alcohol intake. Go for regular exercise.

Hi doctor,When I have the fever, can I take Cetirizine in the morning and then Paracetamol in the afternoon?

 Hi welcome to Chat Doctor forum.  Thanks for asking a question to Chat Doctor. Fever is due to various reasons like viral infection, bacterial infection, malaria, typhoid and so on. You should consult with your physician and get a complete blood count done along with an ESR estimation to find out the cause of your fever. Paracetamol can be taken during fever only if there is no allergy to it. You can also take Acetaminophen or Tylenol. It is better to take antibiotics under prescription of a qualified physician. You should also take plenty of water and eat healthy diet. Hope this reply will help you. Contact further if follow up needed. Wishing you good health. Take care.

Hello doctor,I have small white and yellow lesions with a red border on my tongue. My tongue also develops a white coating, that has to be scrapped of daily. I have attached a photo of the same. What are the likely causes?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As per your history and picture it seems like fungal infection, which is quite common in oral cavity. It can be caused due to poor oral hygiene, deposition of food particles over teeth, weak immune system etc. You need to consult an Oral Physician and get evaluated for the same. For now you can take antifungal medications such as Fluconazole 150 mg once a week for three weeks. You may also apply mouthwash containing Lidocaine HCL 2% directly over the affected areas. Maintain good oral hygiene by brushing twice daily and use mouth wash gargles. Hope this helps. Wishing you good health. Take care.

Hello doctor,Three days ago, I had my atlas adjusted and now for two days, the lymph nodes (cervical lymph nodes) in my neck have been extremely painful and swollen for the last two days. I have no fever or other symptoms. Should I be concerned? I had my atlas which was supposedly two degrees off by an atlas orthogonal chiropractor. I originally went in because of my knee and wrist pain then before I knew it, I was having my atlas adjusted by a machine. My last few days I have been miserable and feeling awful. Exhausted, my lymph nodes are so painful on the sides of my neck I have been in bed all day. I just feel this might be related but I do not know.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum.  I can understand your concern regarding the lymph node swelling in cervical region. The possibility of viral infection is more likely. The lymph nodes become enlarged when there is any infection or inflammation. So get done blood examination like CBC and CRP. It will give us exact idea about the cause. You should take anti-inflammatory painkiller along with antibiotic. Take rest and avoid much stress. You need to follow some precautions also. Wash your hands properly after coming back from outside. Avoid sharing your personal things with others. Do warm saline gargles. Eat healthy food. Hope you find this helpful.

Hello doctor,I am feeling really down. I have had a lot of digestive problems for about two years. I have been diagnosed with candida and dysbiosis but my regular doctor does not seem to know what is wrong with me. I have been very stressed and have suffered anxiety since I was about 16. I was not on any medications and started taking Cymbalta a few months ago.After about three to four days, I started to notice a bit of burning in my feet. I have since stopped taking the Cymbalta about a month ago. My feet seemed fine. Then seven days ago, I have started getting really bad pain in my feet and burning and tickling and pins and needle feelings. I am not diabetic or alcoholic. I have no idea what has brought this on or whether it can be reversed. I am so stressed out. I have to be on my feet for my job for about four and a half hours every morning. Can this be tested to see if the nerve cells are either dead or just damaged and can it be reversed? This feels like it is going to ruin my life. Please help.

 Hi, dear thanks for the query. Your symptoms are suggestive of neuropathy. You should consult physician to rule out the cause for such symptoms. Neurologist will do physical examination and investigations to rule out the underlying causes. Treatment depends upon the cause. You may take analgesics for relief from pain. Consult your physician for further management. Hope this helps. Take care

Hi doctor,I have blood dots present under my skin. But it appears only in my arms. I have them on a different arm every morning. I do not have itching, and they are not raised.

1) Do you get any other symptoms like fever?2) Are these blood spots always present at the same time of day?3) What is your age?4) How long have you had this problem?5) Is there any history of trauma or injury to the area recently?6) Are they painful?7) Are they accompanied by any swelling?8) Have you noticed any bruising anywhere else on your body?9) Any family history of bleeding disorders?10) Do you take any medicines regularly?11) Do you use any injectable contraceptive?12) Do you have any other medical conditions?13) Do you smoke?14) Do you drink alcohol?15) Do you have any other allergies?16) Does sunlight bother you?17) Do you have any other symptoms like fatigue, weight loss, night sweats etc.?

Hello doctor,I had a silent missed abortion last year in the third month of my pregnancy. After that, I got some tests done, which resulted in CMV IgG positive. Then I got vaccinated for rubella to prevent any casualties in the next pregnancy. Now I want to try and conceive, but just now I got my torch panel done again. And now the HSV IGM is positive with 1.15 range along with CMV and rubella IgG positive. Should I wait or can I try to conceive right now? My husband\s torch panel also done, nothing abnormal.I am currently under Folic acid and Multivitamin, for now, to conceive faster. And also a homeopathic medicine for migraine.

1) You should not be worried about this as the test has only been done once and it may have been positive at other times too.2) You need not worry about your husbands test.3) I would suggest that you should continue with the treatment that you are already taking, and if you get pregnant then you should take all the necessary antibiotics and prophylactic medicines.4) I don't think there is anything wrong in trying to conceive at present.

Hi doctor,It is regarding my son. He is 14 months and 1 week old. He has not started to walk by his own but started to crawl since 12 months. Is there a problem with his leg muscle?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. The delay in walking could be due to some neurological disorder or muscular weakness which needs evaluation. So consult pediatrician and get evaluated Hope you found the answer helpful. If you need any clarification / have doubts / have additional questions / have follow-up questions, then please do not hesitate in asking again. I will be happy to answer your questions. In the future, for continuity of care, I encourage you to contact me directly in http://doctor. Chat Doctor.com/contactus.php. Wishing you good health. Let me know if I can assist you further. Take care.

Hello doctor,I was suffering from an infection in my tonsil for the past four days. I went to an ENT specialist four days ago. He told me there is an infection and advised me antibiotic.Now my pain in the tonsil has gone, but I am still feeling something stuck in my left side of the throat where there was tonsil pain. I do not have any problem with swallowing. Kindly advise me the needful.

1) You should continue taking antibiotics as prescribed by your doctor.2) Once the antibiotics take effect, most of the symptoms will go away.3) However, if the infection persists, then it is possible that the tonsils were infected already (peritonsillar abscess). In this case, your doctor may recommend surgery to remove the tonsils (tonsillectomy).4) If the tonsils are not causing any problems, then they can be left alone.

Hello doctor,Around a year ago, some red pimples started appearing around my mouth, chin, forehead, and my nose. These small red pimples create a red area when seen from far away because they are very small and inflamed. It never disappears. My skin always feels stuck and not flexible and with a mildly itchy or burning sensation. No matter how much moisturizer I apply, it does not help. I am using Eucerin atopic control moisturizer and a gel cleanser with Hyaluronan. I even tried using Metronidazole and tea oil, but again it did not help. I have also tried to stop using anything on my face for some days, but it stayed the same. I am 24 years old now, and I never had acne tendencies when I was a teenager, and my skin always looked very smooth. My birth control pill is still the same as it was when I first started taking it, which wad around ten years ago. I do not use steroid creams nor fluoride toothpaste. How can I get rid of this? It was not there before a year. I am attaching a picture of my face. Thanks.

 Hi, welcome to Chat Doctor forum. The condition that you have described seems to be acne vulgaris. As you said that you were having good skin in your teens, and then suddenly developed these rashes, it means that you are suffering from hormonal imbalance due to birth control pills. But, since you are not taking any steroid cream, I don't think it could be the reason. You may consult a dermatologist for diagnosis and treatment. I hope this information helps. Wishing you good health. Thank you.

Hi doctor,I asked a question to you this morning. You advised me not to take contraceptive pills since I have the DIU MIRENA. But I have another question. You are right, I have been feeling my body temperature too high, and my last period almosts last seven days. Here is my question: There are five pills left in the blister, and because of your advice I would like to quit right now from taking pills. Is it alright to stop now or should I finish the pills this month and then stop taking them?

1-it is not advisable to stop using intrauterine device at any time.2-you can use condom as a form of birth control while on Mirena; however this will not protect you against sexually transmitted diseases.3-the pill contains hormones which are essential for normal functioning of your body and also helps prevent pregnancy by preventing ovulation. Stopping pills suddenly may cause side effects such as dizziness, nausea, headache, breast tenderness, etc.4-if you are planning to get pregnant soon, you need to start taking pills regularly again after stopping the current pack.5-it is best to complete the current pack and then switch over to other form of contraception. Hope this answers your query.

Hi doctor,I am coming here for what I think may be possible lower back muscle spasms. I originally felt the pain after playing lots of baseballs (swinging a baseball bat many times). I have symptoms such as tightness, limited mobility or restricted range of motion, throbbing pain, and sometimes it gets so bad that it became hard for me to even walk or sit! I went to my athletic trainer a month ago, and she told me she thinks it is just an aggravated muscle spasm. So she told me to just give it some rest from the activity that hurt it. So I gave it about a month, in which it seemed there was no pain. But as soon as I tried to do the activity that hurt me in the first place, it went right back to hurting. It would be of great help for any assistance. What should I do now?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your problem, it seems that you had some sort of injury to your back muscles due to overuse. The symptoms that you describe at this time seem to be related to nerve compression. This can happen if the disc between two vertebrae get prolapsed or if there is some other bony outgrowth that compresses the nerves in the area. You need to consult a Neurologist who will examine you and order tests like MRI scan etc. to rule out the cause. Meanwhile, take plenty of fluids and avoid lifting heavy weights. Hope this helps. Take care.

Hello doctor, My partner had a miscarriage unknowingly that she was pregnant five to eight weeks maybe? She had negative home pregnancy tests, a negative test at the doctor, and had a miscarriage the next day after doctors test. My question is, could it be possible there is another fetus remaining inside? I only ask because we each have one parent that is a twin. Please advise.She thought she was on her period the entire week. Bled for seven days. Sheattributed it to the Plan-b pill she took several weeks back. We hadunprotected sex but I still pulled out. She is on birth control andused a Plan-b pill. How is any of this miscarriage stuffpossible especially after just seeing the doctor the day beforemiscarriage?

1. No, it is not possible for your partner to have two fetuses in her uterus.2. There can be a possibility of an ectopic pregnancy which is very rare.3. Your partner must undergo hormone assay to rule out pregnancy.4. If pregnancy is confirmed then she should get admitted.5. In case of failure of pregnancy, she will need to take progesterone supplementation to prevent further miscarriages. Hope this helps. Regards

Hello doctor,I was diagnosed with dysphonia about a month ago. I have had a couple of speech therapy sessions but progress is glacial. I am still hoarse and in pain. I have been on 40 mg of Omeprazole for a month and Gaviscon Double Action for two weeks. I feel like the back of my throat is still swollen and I have pain in the corners of my throat. This only briefly eases when I really do some throat opening exercises. I cannot talk for very long without everything getting sore still. I have been like this since the beginning of the year since I had a chest infection and pneumonia. My mouth is now getting sore from all the Gaviscon tablets as the liquid irritates the corners of my throat. I really do not know what else I can do. I am having panic attacks and starting to feel like the only option is to take my life. I had a post nasal drip for most of the year so far and I am trying to get my salivary glands to work again properly.

1) Post nasal drip can be due to many reasons such as sinusitis, rhinitis etc.2) In case if it is due to rhinitis, then treatment should be started accordingly.3) For the present complaint of voice problems, I would advise you to visit an ENT specialist who will examine your throat and may do a laryngoscopy or a fibrogastroscopy depending upon the clinical findings.4) It is important that you also consult a psychiatrist as you are feeling suicidal, which is a serious problem.5) Do not worry, you will be fine.

Hello doctor,I had a secondary burn on my calf, after a month of self-treating. It just got worse. I play soccer and that and the sweat is what was irritating it. So I finally went to the doctor and they prescribed me SMZ, TMP DS. I took it for about a week until I realized I was having a lot of side effects and an allergic reaction especially around my mouth. At first I thought I was just breaking out. Then it was not like sores or blisters. I kept self-treating the rash around my mouth and stopped taking the antibiotics. For a couple days it was gone. I was happy. Then I was in the sun one day for soccer and it was just like another rash but worse. I stayed home from school, did not do anything because I just wanted to get it better. But now it looks really bad. I believe I have perioral dermatitis. It is red patches all around my mouth. It is really dry and scaly, also there are like white-heads around my mouth also but they are not whiteheads. I would try to moisturize it with coconut oil or tea tree oil but I think that is what made it worse.

1) Secondary bacterial infection can develop if the wound is infected by bacteria.2) Peripheral dermatitis is caused due to fungus which causes scaling and itching around the mouth and other parts of body.3) The best way to treat this condition is to use topical steroid cream such as triamcinolone acetone ointment twice daily.4) You should take oral antihistamines tablets such as cetirizine/levocetirizine for symptomatic relief.5) Apply mild steroid cream over affected areas at nighttime for faster healing.6) Keep your mouth clean and Chat Doctor.

Hello doctor,Attached is a treadmill stress test result. I would like to obtain technical info regarding these results, particularly regarding the infarction. I would appreciate the severity of this infarction and whether it could be a machine error. Could you also tell me by perhaps drawing on the shot what waves and shapes indicate problems?

 Hello, Thank you for posting your query. You have not shared the images which can help us understand better. I will try my best to explain from the information given here. The ECG has two parts - ST segment elevation and T wave inversion. Both are important for interpretation of the same. In your case, both are normal. So no need to worry about that. The peak exercise heart rate (HRpeak) is also normal. This means that there is no evidence of any cardiac abnormality at present. However, if you do not feel well or have symptoms related to chest discomfort, then you should get yourself evaluated again. Hope this helps. Please get back if you require any additional information. Best wishes,

Hello doctor,If TSH range is 18.64, does it mean any problem?

 Hi, welcome to Chat Doctor! It means your thyroid function is normal. Your TSH level is within normal limits. So there is no need for concern. The reference ranges vary from laboratory to laboratory but usually the upper limit of normal range is between 2.5 and 5.0 mIU/L. I hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. Wishing you good health.

Hi doctor, I have one white lump around the tonsil area in my throat. It has been there a good few months now and the area is swollen. Is this cancer?

 Hi, dear thanks for your contact to Chat Doctor. I read your query and understand your concern. As per your complaint it seems that you may be having some kind of enlarged lymph nodes due to some infective cause like reactive hyperplasia or tuberculosis as a possibility. In case if its not responding to treatment then biopsy should be taken to rule out malignancy. So consult an ENT specialist and get examined. Doctor may order blood test, CT scan or ultrasound of neck to confirm the diagnosis. Doctor may prescribe antibiotics, anti-inflammatory medications depending upon the cause. Hope this will help you for sure. Contact further if follow up needed. Best regards,

Hello doctor,I have a best friend who suffers from anxiety and I saw her almost dying today because of a panic attack she had. All her life she thought she had a problem with her heart but she went to see a doctor and he said she is in perfect health. She starts shaking and cannot breathe and I am really scared and try to calm her down but she cannot breathe. She cannot stop shaking for at least half an hour. I do not know what to do and I hope you can tell me.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. Anxiety attacks are caused by excessive worrying about certain events or matters. There are different types, like phobias, obsessive compulsive disorder, social anxieties etc. She may need psychological counseling. You should support her emotionally, as she might be feeling very low. Try to find out the cause of this anxiety and help her to overcome it. She needs some relaxation techniques also. Avoid any addiction substances. Take care.

Hello doctor,I had elevated ALT levels between 50-130 for the past one and half years with slight enlargement. Recently, I have elevated AST levels. There is no hepatitis or inflammatory diseases, alcohol, drug use, or fatty liver, or Addison\s.Liver biopsy showed inflammation, but a resolving process likely attributed to a year long Lyme disease treatment with various pharmaceuticals but discontinued two years ago. Liver enzymes dropped to 50 ALT, but have recently elevated to 130 ALT.At this point, there is no known cause. I was told to continue to wait and see. I would like to take a different approach and determine if there is something my hepatologist is not seeing. The current medications are Lamictal and Gabapentin, Trazodone. I had abdominal CT, abdominal MRI, liver biopsy, ultrasounds, and a significant amount of blood work.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As your ALT level has been elevated since 1 & 1/2 years, it might be due to some chronic infection. It could also be due to some liver damage caused by certain medicines or other causes. You should consult your physician to get an opinion about the cause of your problem. You can also discuss about your symptoms and other problems that you may be facing at present. Hope this information helps. Take care.

Hi doctor,I have a small pimple on the penis and testicles for the past six years. I consulted a doctor a long time ago. The doctor told me that it is normal. Please help me.

1) Small lumps/pimples on your penis or testicle can be due to some infection of hair follicles called furuncles (boils).2) Other cause may be sebaceous cyst.3) If you don't have any symptoms then no need to worry about this.4) You should take a course of antibiotics like amoxicillin along with anti-inflammatory Chat Doctor. 5) If there is pain or discharge from these lumps then consult a doctor immediately. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,After unsafe exposure, I got 49 days ELISA antibody test done, 71 days HIV proviral DNA PCR test, 87 days ELISA antibody test. All were negative. The antibody test I took is not a fourth generation test. Is it conclusive or should I take another test? If I repeat the HIV test after six months what is the chance of staying negative? I am facing the problem like small bumps in the tongue, from the last two days a little bit of pain below ear region and it is a little swollen. Is it due to HIV? I am stressed, scared, full of tension. These are hampering my life. I do not know what to do. Today I am in the 107th day of exposure.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As your ELISA antibody test was negative, there is no need for any further testing. These symptoms can be due to stress. You may consult a psychiatrist for evaluation and management. Stressful events can be managed with counseling sessions and medications if required. Please click THANK YOU and consider a 5-star rating with some positive feedback if the information was helpful. Hope the above information helps you, Any further clarifications feel free to ask. Wishing you good health. Take care.

Hello doctor,I am 16 years old, and I wear contact lenses. I have never really taken them off. I would sleep with the contact lenses in my eyes and I have started wearing them since I was 13 years old. I would change them, but I would not take them off, and I would go days. My vision gets worse when I go to the eye doctor, but I have not had problems with infections. Recently I noticed that my left eye is red without pain or irritation, but red as the color of the pink eye. I do not know if it is the contact lenses which is causing the redness. Please help.

1. You should be aware about the need for regular maintenance of your lenses for proper vision.2. The most common cause of redness of the eye is due to allergies. It can also be due to bacterial or viral infection. You may require an antibiotic treatment depending upon the cause.3. In case you do not get relief from topical medicines then you will need to visit an ophthalmologist for further evaluation.

Hi doctor,While working out today, I was doing a shoulder press. I was doing it too fast, and at one point, I got a sharp pain in my back, near where my ribs meet my spine. Since then, I am also having very sharp pain when inhaling and exhaling, as well as when rotating my torso or neck. Should I need to go for urgent care? Currently, I am taking Zyrtec, Amino acid supplements for energy and muscle recovery, hormonal IUD.

1. The symptoms seem to be due to musculoskeletal origin and not related to any organic pathology.2. Muscles of back, chest wall and abdomen get strained during vigorous physical activity like weight training.3. This can cause soreness, stiffness and spasms.4. This is a self limiting condition and will subside over few days time with adequate rest.5. You may take anti-inflammatory medications such as ibuprofen for relief from your symptoms.6. For local application, you can apply warm compresses over affected areas.7. I hope this information has been both informative and helpful for you. Wish you good health.

Hello doctor,I am 26 years old. I have seen my period in the second month of last year and miss it up for a further two months. I have seen it again after three months and stopped at the end of that month. But anytime I have sexual intercourse, I will bleed and past lots of blood clots for at least three days and then stop, and I waited for four days. I was good until I had sex again the same bleeding occurs, and there was lots of blood clot. Please help.

1) You need to check your thyroid profile as well since irregular periods can be due to hypothyroidism.2) Also, you need to get an ultrasound scan done to rule out any pelvic pathology or fibroids3) If everything is normal then you should look into your diet and lifestyle habits like weight loss, stress management etc.4) Also, if you are taking hormonal pills then you should take them under the guidance of a gynecologist5) Lastly, if everything else fails then you may need to do some investigations like serum prolactin levels and a transvaginal sonogram.

Hello doctor,I have an astigmatism of O.D. -0.75, -1.25 90 OS: -1.0 -0.75 85. The last week I have had constant headaches and periodic blurry vision. I am wondering if this could be a result of not wearing my glasses. How often should I be wearing my glasses? The periodic blurry vision started two weeks ago and one week ago the constant headache started (4 to 6 out of 10). I have seen a few different doctors about it but they are not sure.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your condition, it is more likely that you may have some infection or inflammation in the orbit. You may need to consult a good eye surgeon for a complete check-up. Meanwhile, you can take paracetamol tablets for the pain relief. Wishing for a quick recovery. Thank you.

Hello doctor,My upper front tooth with root canal has moved inside because of an injury and it is bleeding.

1) I would like to know if there was any treatment done before or after your injury?2) Do you have pain while chewing food or in morning when you wake up?3) Can you tell me how long did this bleeding last?4) Is it associated with swelling around that area?5) Do you notice any pus discharge from the gum?6) Did you visit a dentist for diagnosis?7) What is the status of the other teeth in your mouth?8) How many teeth do you have in total?9) Any medications taken for pain relief?10) Are you taking any antibiotics?11) Does your tooth have any sensitivity?12) Does your tooth feel hot or cold?13) Do you have difficulty opening your mouth wide?14) Are you able to close your jaw completely?15) Do you have any fever?

Hello doctor,Two years before, I got tested my whole body and blood. There are some dark circles that appear on my body and I am getting treated regularly, but still, my blood has some problem. I get PT and INR tests done regularly.

1) Please do not worry about the dark circles as they are not a serious condition and can be managed by proper treatment.2) For your blood problems, it would have been better if you had mentioned what type of problem is there in the blood? Is it anemia or something else?3) You need to consult with a hematologist for further evaluation and management.

Hello doctor,I feel pain after eating some food around the belly button. Sometimes, it feels warm also around belly button and itching as well and tastes come from mouth what I ate. So, I want to know what is happeing with me.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your symptoms, it seems that you have developed an allergic reaction to something you had taken recently. The symptoms of this type of allergy include itchy skin rashes, burning sensation in the intestines, nausea, vomiting, gastritis etc. You should avoid the suspected item and take antihistamine like cetirizine or levocetirizine for relief. For further information, please consult your general physician. Hope this helps. Take care.

Hello doctor,I had kissed a prostitute on lips and breast but did not have intercourse with her. I have no cut on lips and mouth. Is there any chance of me getting any STI?

1) No it is unlikely that you will get STD from this activity.2) As mentioned above there has to be skin-to-skin contact for transmission of STD.3) You can do a urine test if you wish to confirm the diagnosis.4) Condoms should be used when having sex with multiple partners to avoid infection. Hope this answers your question.

Hello doctor,I have spastic paraplegia. Everything I have tried has not worked. I was told to try a medication called L-Dopa. Will this medication help me?

1) Dopamine is a chemical in the brain that helps nerve cells send signals. It also helps control movement. L-dopa is converted into dopamine in the body and can be used for treating Parkinsonism (which includes tremors, stiffness, slow movements and muscle rigidity).2) Yes, it will help you. But there are certain precautions to take while using it as follows:1) Do not use if you are allergic to any of its ingredients. 2) Avoid alcohol when taking this medicine.3) Take with food or milk to avoid stomach upset.4) You may need to increase your dose slowly over time.5) This medicine may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, or fainting. Do not drive, operate machinery, or do other dangerous activities until you know how this medicine affects you.6) Other

Hello doctor,I am a 17-year-old. I am 5\7" in height and140 lbs weight. My dad is 5\9, and my mom is 5\1. I would like to at least reach 5\9 to 5\10. My diet is exceptional. I am taking a multivitamin, and I do not have any deficiencies. I am thinking of taking 1500 mg of Glucosamine because I read studies concluding that it may help a bit. Would you recommend glucosamine, or something else?Also, do you think I can still reach my height goal? I am worried that I may have stunted my growth. I have had insomnia, depression, and anxiety for four years now. This has affected my life considerably, and I am worried I would not grow to my potential height because of it. I also have not been getting too much calcium and protein because I have been avoiding dairy products. Should I be drinking more milk and if so, how much?

1. I don't think there is any harm in taking glucosamine supplements.2. There is no harm in taking milk, but do not overdo it as it will cause constipation.3. You should eat balanced meals with plenty of fruits and vegetables and avoid junk foods.4. Yes, you can reach your desired height.5. Also, try to get some good sleep and relax yourself by doing some physical activities.

Hello doctor,I am having back pain near the spine on the right side, especially when I go downstairs or go for a walk. My back gets locked when I am standing still. There is too much pain on the right side while sitting on a hard surface. There is also nerve pain after having food sitting on the ground. There is pain only on the right side while using the commode. I am suffering from this pain from the past two years and have not got any relief. Kindly help me.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum, As per your history there can be many reasons for that. It could be due to disc prolapse in the lumbar region causing compression of the nerves at L4-L5 level leading to pain radiating to the lower limbs. Due to muscle spasm it might lead to acute pain. You need to get an MRI done to confirm the diagnosis. After that you can take treatment accordingly. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I have an odd thing happening in my left eye. I see a flash of light when I look right to left in the left side of my eye. It is a curve from top to bottom. It happens in daylight, nighttime, and even in the dark with my eyes closed. I move my pupil left to right and see a bright arc of light. I cannot make it stay there, it just flashes as I move my eye balls left to right. Any ideas?

 Hi, Welcome To Chat Doctor forum. I am sorry to say that this phenomenon appears not to be serious at present. There may be some problem with your contact lenses or cornea which causes such symptoms. You should consult your optometrist for examination of your eyes. He will examine your eyes thoroughly and get back to you with his opinion after further investigations. I hope I answered your query. Please feel free to write for any further clarifications. Wishing you good health. Take care

Hello doctor,Hemoglobin: 14.3, platelets: 174000, SGOT: 38.9, SGPT: 65.0 and vitamin D: 23.6. All other reports are normal.

 Your liver enzymes are elevated but not very high which is concerning for significant liver disease. I would be concerned about alcohol intake or medications that can cause liver injury. Vitamin D levels are low and should be checked again in a few weeks to see if they improve. It may be worthwhile getting an ultrasound of your abdomen to look at your liver.

Hi doctor,I have not grown to the expected height. I am 173 cm. My mother is 173 cm and father is 189 cm. I had a blood test to determine my HGH levels. The doctor asked me for a testosterone and GH test. The result came back a week later and it said that I had a low HGH level and a 21/42 level testosterone. Is this normal for an 18 year old male? I was devastated that my growth plates were closed, because I also had an x-ray of left hand. My doctor asked me whether I am sexually active. I answered him no. But, I got a doubt regarding erectile dysfunction. Am I suffering from erectile dysfunction? Should I be worried? Is my testosterone too low? How can I increase testosterone? I had torsion three years back and nothing back happened. But, this could be a factor. Another factor may be that I used to hold my mobile phone in my pocket all the time.I am a sprint athlete and have defined leg muscles, but this could be due to my short stature. I have gone for another blood test for GH, just as a follow up and that time I was advised to fast for 14 hours. But, I did not fast during my first blood test. Please help me.

 Hi, thanks for writing to Chat Doctor. Your age is 18 years, and your height is 173 cm. You should be able to grow at least half a foot more if you continue growing till 20 or 22 years of age. So, if you do not grow now then there is no chance of further growth. Testosterone level is normal. There is no need to worry about your sexual activity. Erectile dysfunction is common with aging, and it has nothing to do with your testosterone level. You have to consult your orthopedic surgeon and get evaluated for your short stature.

Hello doctor,I am six days post operative from a full tummy tuck with liposuction and muscle repair. I feel that I am recovering normally from what I was told and what I read. However, the area immediately above my belly button is extremely sore and appears to almost be bulging and is slightly elevated when touched. I did have my follow up and questioned this area and he cited the muscle repair and the liposuction but I wanted to get a second opinion on this and see if anyone has had similar experiences that are normal.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe the condition there seems to be some infection at the site of surgery which may not be visible to the eye. The swelling is due to accumulation of fluid under the skin. You can take anti-inflammatory medications like Ibuprofen for pain relief and antibiotics like Augmenting as well as ointments like Mupirocin or gentamicin ointment locally over the swollen area. Do warm fomentation over it. Hope this will help you. Wishing you good health. Thank you.

Hello doctor,I am an 18-year-old, and I have experienced forgetfulness ever since I was in elementary. I usually ace my tests because I have a very short term memory, so cramming often makes do. But, I often tend to forget things when my body takes the so-called auto-pilot mode. During these times, I tend to do things with me, not really focusing on doing it because I was thinking of something else. I cannot really recall what exactly happened in a day when nothing special has occurred. I often forget where I put things, even when they are already in front of me, or in my hand. I seem to misplace habitually and it has pertrubed my parents. Now I am wandering if these are early symptoms of Alzheimer\s. Please reply, and if you want to ask questions about me,feel free.

 Hi there, your concern is valid as you have been experiencing this for quite some time now. Although, the exact cause can only be known after a thorough clinical evaluation and investigation, however, from what you have mentioned here, it does seem like you are having problems with concentration and focus in life. This could be due to many reasons which would need further assessment and evaluation. You may also have to undergo some investigations like blood tests, CT scan etc. to rule out any other causes. However, I would suggest you to meet up with a psychiatrist who will help you diagnose the problem and provide you with the right treatment options. Wish you all the best.

Hi doctor,Five years ago my mother was diagnosed with fibromyalgia. I think she also has rheumatoid arthritis. For the past five years, she was managing the pain with anti-inflammatory medicine, Lyrica, Mythycobal, Voltaren injections, herbal creams, etc. You can see the veins in her hands popping out. I also realized that the pain has got worse now.For about 12 months the doctor put her only on Prednisolone 5 mg/day and painkiller when necessary. She was fine till last month but the pain increased in her hands now. In the daytime she is fine and the pain starts mildly in the evening. When she lies down in the bed she gets electrical tingling in her legs by which her sleep gets disturbed. She has undergone several tests last week and I attached them for your reference. She did not consult a rheumatologist yet. What medication can I give to reduce the inflammation and cure her? Her ESR, CPR, and ANA are quite high. The pain in her hands and the tingling in her legs at night are agonizing her life. Kindly provide your expert advice.

 Hi, Thanks for writing in. Fibromyalgia is a chronic condition. It is characterized by widespread musculoskeletal pain as well as fatigue and tenderness of specific points on palpation (trigger points). The trigger points may be tender even after the muscle has been completely relaxed. The pain may be severe enough to limit daily activities or require bed rest. Treatment includes lifestyle changes such as exercise, stress management, proper sleep hygiene, physical therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy and medications such as Tricyclic antidepressants, muscle relaxants, analgesics, Serotonin reuptake inhibitors, Sleeping pills etc. I would advise you to take treatment from an Rheumatologist who will help you with the above mentioned options. Please do not worry.

Hello doctor,I am currently having acne on my cheeks. I am currently applying Benzoyl peroxide gel on my acne. It only reduces the inflammation but bumps are not reducing. I also have pigmentation caused by acne before. I only get acne on my cheeks. What may be the reason? I usually get cyst acne bumps on my cheeks. If acne clears, then it comes again. I have red pigmentation caused by acne. Can you recommend a product for acne and after acne has cleared, can you suggest a product for pigmentation? Can you recommend a product for controlling further breakouts? Also, I wanted to know which sunscreen and moisturizer to use?

1) Benzyl peroxide is an antiseptic agent which acts against the infection causing microorganisms. It is not a treatment for acne or pigmentation as such.2) Acne lesions can recur if adequate measures are not taken. The best way to prevent them is to maintain good hygiene by washing face twice daily with a mild soap/cleanser and keep your skin clean. Avoid excessive oiliness of face. Use benzoyl peroxide gels for local application over active areas.3) After acne subsides, apply a cream containing clindamycin, tretinoin and azelaic acid. Apply this cream at nighttime only.4) For pigmentation, use a cream containing retinoid (Retinol), niacinamide and kojic acid.5) Sunscreen should contain SPF 3

Hello doctor,I have a query on heavy periods since three weeks.

1. What could be the cause?2. I am 23 years old female, married for two years and having regular cycles of 28-30 days with no other complaints. 3. The bleeding started suddenly one day before my expected period date.4. It is not very heavy but more than normal.5. I had an examination done by gynecologist who said that it is just the beginning of the period.6. I'm worried about this as it is also accompanied by pain in lower abdomen which increases when I pass urine.7. Please suggest me what to do next?

Hello doctor,I have been given hepatitis B blood test that showed the HBsAg negative and the hepatitis B core antibody image as positive. I am currently getting labs done for hepatitis B Surf Ab Quant, HBsAg screen, hepatitis B virus profile, and panel. I am getting conflicting information on websites and from healthcare professionals that hepatitis B does not ever leave the body but I also read that 98 % of the people who get it cleared the disease from the body. My question is what is the real answer, can I beat the virus and remove it from my body completely leaving only anti-bodies?

 Thanks for your query to Chat Doctor virtual clinic. I am a Gastroenterologist. Hepatitis B infection is a chronic condition and if left untreated may lead to cirrhosis & liver cancer. The treatment consists of antiviral medicines which should be taken lifelong along with immunization against Hepatitis B. This will prevent further spread of the disease. You need to consult an Infectious Disease specialist for management. You also need to undergo regular monitoring of liver function tests. Hope this helps you. Take care.

Hello doctor,I have had a feeling like something had been at the back of my left side of the throat for a few days. I do not know what it is? Tonsils are not inflamed, throat a bit dry, and does not hurt to swallow.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com. The symptoms you are mentioning can be due to many reasons like throat infection or allergy. Please consult your ENT specialist for proper diagnosis and treatment. An examination will help to find out the cause and treat accordingly. A course of antibiotics with anti-inflammatory medicines may help. You can take some homemade remedies like warm saline gargles two - three times a day. Take plenty of water. Hope this information was useful to you. Wish you good health. Thank you.

Hello doctor,How to use a product called Contractubex? I bought it but for some reason, it does not come with usage instructions. How do I use this product but combining it with SPF 30? I would like to know how to use it for a fresh surgical scar. Can someone please tell me how to use it with SPF 30, that is how to combine SPF 30 for a surgical scar because Contractubex does not come with instructions on how to use it mixing it with SPF 30. I had surgery on right cheek to remove the black birthmark.

1. For best results start using contracture as soon as possible after surgery.2. Apply it twice daily at least for 6 months. You can apply the cream before applying sunscreen and reapply every 4 hours, if needed.3. If you feel that there is no improvement in your scars within a few months of treatment, consult your surgeon who will examine your scars and may change the therapy accordingly.

Hello doctor,Just a few minutes before I was trying to reach my forehead with my left arm and just after that, I think my nerve got stretched in the neck. I am in extreme pain and I am not able to turn my neck to left. When my neck is on right it feels little fine. I cannot do anything with this pain. Please help me.

1. You need to be evaluated by a neurologist or neurosurgeon for proper diagnosis and management.2. It seems like you have a pinched nerve in your cervical spine (neck).3. For now, you can take acetaminophen/Tylenol for pain relief.4. Avoid heavy lifting, straining, bending forward, and twisting movements of head and neck.5. Apply an ice pack over the affected area for 20 minutes at a time every two to three hours during the day.6. As a first step you should see a neurologist or neurosurgeon for further evaluation and treatment.

Hello doctor,I am 32 years old. My sickness started with a slight fever Tuesday night, then Wednesday I got a higher temperature of 38.1. Then Thursday night rashes appeared. I went to a local doctor Friday morning as my fever reach 39 degrees C. They gave me a fast drip to lower my temperature. Then Saturday morning my temperature went down to 37 but I still have few rashes. Then I started feeling my swollen joint, hands, and feet pain. Now I already took a bath as my temperature is 36.3 C. I am just worried about my swollen feet and hands and the pain is troubling.I am currently takin Biogesic Paracetamol.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your symptoms, it seems that you may be having viral infection. The rashes could be due to rubbing of skin while sleeping or some allergies. But it doesn't seem like any serious condition. For now, take paracetamol for fever, and if required, you can go for antibiotics after consultation with your GP. Hope this helps you. Wishing you good health. Thank you.

Hi doctor,I have been suffering from pain on the right side of my abdomen, from the past three days. It pains more when I press my abdomen. The pain is not very severe, and it comes and goes. I thought it is a gastric pain, so I took medicines for it. But, it did not help me get rid of the pain. What to do now?

1) Pain in abdomen can be due to any number of reasons like gastrointestinal disorder, urinary tract infection, appendicitis etc. So, it is important to know your complete history before making diagnosis.2) I would suggest taking an ultrasound abdomen first which will help in ruling out any intra-abdominal pathology.3) You may need a course of antibiotics if there is any evidence of infection.4) Avoid spicy foods and take plenty of water.5) Take a proton pump inhibitor if needed. Hope this helps

Hi doctor,From the last three years, I have severe foot pain. The doctor told me it is because of plantar fasciitis. I took four Cortisone injections, and I wear special boots, but I did not get any relief. So, I took an MRI, and I am attaching my MRI reports with this query. What do the results of my MRI mean? I currently take Levoxyl and Paxil. Please help.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your symptoms are due to Plantar Fascia. It can be confirmed by taking X-ray of Foot. Apart from that there may be some other reason for pain as well. You should consult orthopedic surgeon for diagnosis and treatment. For now use analgesic and apply ice pack locally. I will advise you to take complete course of antibiotic and anti-inflammatory Chat Doctor.  Wishing you a good health. Take care

Hi doctor,I am having a lot of clotting bigger than quarter size back to back, filling my tampon or pad in less than an hour. I am not on any medications and there is no bad medical history.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. I understand your concern. The bleeding from uterus can be due to several reasons like-Hormonal imbalance / hormone replacement therapy/prolonged use of oral contraceptives / fibroid / polyps / endometriosis / ovarian cysts / pelvic inflammation / cervical erosion etc. In case if it is heavy then consult gynecologist for clinical examination & investigations like - USG scan, blood test (complete hemogram, TSH, prolactin, LH, FSH) for diagnosis & treatment. Treatment depends upon cause, so consult doctor for proper diagnosis & treatment. You may need surgery in some cases. Hope this helps you. Wish you good health. Take care.

Hi doctor,I am having issues while doing intercourse. Please help.

1) What is your age?2) How often do you have sex?3) Do you ejaculate inside vagina or outside vagina?4) Are you taking any medicines for erectile dysfunction?5) Have you consulted urologist before?6) Is there any problem with your penis size?7) Do you have any other sexual problems like premature ejaculation etc.?8) Does your wife have any issue during intercourse?9) Do you experience pain during intercourse?10) Any history of STD/STI?11) Any other symptoms like fever, pain in testicles etc.?

Hello doctor,I am a 40-year-old male. I am a vegetarian. I pursue an active lifestyle. I do not smoke or drink. I am a long distance endurance marathon runner. I also strength train three days a week and run two days a week. I got my sugar test, thyroid profile and vitamin D levels checked yesterday. I am attaching the detailed reports, summary as follows:Blood Glucose (F) 89 mg/dL.Blood Glucose (PP) 102 mg/dL.Urine sugar (both in F and PP) not present.HbA1C 5.8 %.Thyroid profile: T3(CLIA) 57 ng/mL, T4(FPIA) 6.38 ug/dL, TSH(CLIA) 1.81 uIU/mL.Vitamin D (25 hydroxycholecalciferol) 26.97 ng/mL.From the reference ranges, things seem to be fine. I just wanted to check with you for any precautions or preventive measures to be taken. Thanks.

1. Your blood glucose level is normal according to your report. So no need to worry about that. 2. Thyroid function tests are within normal range except TSH which is slightly low. Nothing to worry. You should discuss with your doctor about this matter. 3. Vitamin D level is normal. It is good if it was higher than that. 4. I suggest you to continue your healthy diet and regular exercise. Eat more fruits and green leafy vegetables. Do not eat too much oily food. Take care.

Hello doctor,I am writing on behalf of my mother and she is currently facing the severe recurrent nocturnal high blood pressure problem. She has been constantly relying on anti-hypertensive drugs from the past five years and the situation is aggravating day by day. Moreover, she claims of facing high pulse rate and is positively confirmed by ECG. Currently, she consumes a combination of Cilnidipine and Metoprolol and also other allied drugs in an emergency.

1) The medication that your mother is taking for hypertension may be causing her symptoms. It is best to discuss this with her physician who can assess whether or not these medications are actually needed.2) It is possible that some of her symptoms are related to her diabetes which needs to be managed better.3) She should avoid sugary foods and increase her physical activity.4) In addition to her current medications, I would recommend that she takes calcium supplements to help reduce any hyperactivity of the heart.5) If she has had any uncontrolled episodes of hypoglycemia (low sugar), it is important to check her blood sugar levels at least once a month.6) It is also important to make sure that she is not having cardiac arrhythmias such as Atrial fibrillation which can cause palpitations.

Hi doctor,I recently had unprotected sex with a guy twice in an interval of three days. After the first time, there was a lot of pain, but had a regular whitish discharge. Second time, I started having this brownish or yellowish discharge and I have taken the photo of the discharge. I am not sure what it is? Neither of us have STDs. I am quite scared of being pregnant. I do not remember when I had my last period. Is this discharge normal? Please help me.

1st you need to know your ovulation day, as you did intercourse during that phase only. So, chances of getting pregnancy is less. As per your history, you had unprotected sex few times, so possibility of getting pregnancy is high. You can go for urine pregnancy test after one week of missed periods. Brownish or yellowish discharge could be due to vaginal infection like bacterial Vaginosis (BV). BV is common in women who have frequent sexual activity. It usually presents with gray-white discharge with fishy odor. So, consult gynecologist for proper clinical evaluation and treatment. Take care.

Hello doctor,My sister is having a craniotomy operation. MRI before surgery and post-surgery are attached. Biopsy report is also attached. So, kindly help me to understand the biopsy report. Current medications are Encorate Chrono 500 mg twice daily, Thyronorm 50 mg. Current problems are weight loss, severe hair fall, less appetite, weakness, not able to eat or smell non-veg items, no hunger.

 Hi thanks for your query. I have gone through your question and understand your concern. The biopsy report shows that there is an infiltration of leukocytes (white blood cells) in her brain, which may be due to some reaction following surgery. She should take the medicines prescribed by her treating physician. Other than this she needs to do regular exercises like walking and breathing exercise, yoga etc. These will improve immunity and general health. Hope you found the answer helpful. Wishing her good health.

Hi doctor,My mother is suffering from a left femoral neck fracture. Is there any other treatment other than surgery? Please suggest.

 Hi, Thanks for writing in to us. The best way to treat the fractured hip bone is to do an open reduction and internal fixation with screws, plates or nails. This will be done by a orthopedic surgeon. She may have to stay in bed or may require assisted walking using crutches. In case if she has not had any complications of her previous hip fractures then I would advise her to undergo this procedure as soon as possible.

Hi doctor,My fiancee and I are not known HIV positive. But we have had unprotected anal sex ten times so far. Can we be infected with HIV?

1. It is very unlikely that your partner will get infected with HIV.2. The chances of getting infected with HIV after one exposure to it is less than 0.1%.3. However, if you want to be doubly sure about her health status then go for an HIV test at least three months after the last sexual encounter.4. In my opinion, there is no need for you to take any medicines as you do not have any symptoms or signs of HIV infection.5. Please follow safe sex practices in future to avoid such problems. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. Wishing you good health.

Hello doctor,Just two days ago I found out I was about 1-2 weeks pregnant. And it has been about 4 1/2 weeks since my last menstrual period. Unfortunately with labor day being this weekend I have been unable to see my regular OBGYN. But I did go to the ER to confirm the pregnancy 2 days ago. So my blood results came back with an HCG OF 248 and the doctor said I am right around 1-2 weeks.So, here is my question. I have been stressing out badly due to the fact I have been on Lorazepam 1 mg every night for anxiety and PD for the last 2 years as well as Percocet 10 mg as needed for back pain. I have been taking both of the medications during my pregnancy when I had no idea I was pregnant. Since finding out I have tried tapering on both medications. The Percocet is making me sweat and very agitated and when I tried to cut down on the Lorazepam I was shaking and almost hallucinating and delusion. I also tried not taking the Lorazepam at all and woke up crying, shaking and sweating. I want to be off both these medicines but I am worried more about the Lorazepam as it is a class D pregnancy drug. I have read about the terrible problems this causes for infants. I am so scared that I am considering abortion. I do not want to be a terrible mother before I even give birth. I have been having bad panic attacks over this and cannot seem to relax as the complications of these medicines are always on my mind. Any advice at all would be very much appreciated.

 Hi, Thanks for posting in Chat Doctor. I understand your concern. Lorazepam is a benzodiazepine which is a group C teratogen, meaning it can cause harm to the fetus. It should not be taken during pregnancy if possible. However, there are some women who may need it for their health, and they will have to weigh risks vs benefits. If you were taking Lorazepam only, you might consider taking it while pregnant. You could try switching to another anti-anxiety medicine such as clonazepam or alprazolam. These two are considered safe during early pregnancy. In addition, you should continue to take your other medication such as percocet. This can help reduce the symptoms of nausea, headache etc. Hope this helps. Take care.

Hello doctor,I have a roll or lump of fat under my left breast, on the top of the ribcage. It comes down from my chest, it kind of fills the gap from under the breast to the ribs. It is not hard, does not hurt nor is it sore. It is just squishy and soft like normal fat. Is it possible to get fat on just one side of the body like that?

1) Yes, it is possible to get fat on just one side of the body like that.2) The best way to determine this is through an ultrasound examination of your abdomen/breast area.3) The lump could be a lipoma or a cyst.4) In either case, surgical excision would be required for definitive management.5) I suggest you visit a general surgeon who will examine you thoroughly and help you with further investigation and treatment. Hope this helps.

Hi doctor,I am 26 years old, female. I have high blood pressure problem from the last one month (silent BP) and my kidneys are damaging beacuse of this and my platelet count is 12 lakhs. These are continuously increasing from the last eight months, that is 6 lakhs, 8 lakhs, 11 lakhs and now 12 lakhs. My legs and foot pain are increasing day by day. Please reply as soon as possible.

1) A platelet count of more than 400,000/microL is considered to be normal. Higher counts may indicate increased bleeding tendency.2) The cause for your high platelet count needs to be investigated. It could be due to some infection, inflammation or an autoimmune disorder. You need to consult a hematologist for further evaluation.3) Your symptoms seem to be related to the high platelet count and not to hypertension. There are no reports available which suggests that high platelet counts can damage the kidney. Hope this helps.

Hello doctor,My 21 months old daughter has scratched herself near her clitoris and I was wondering what is the best action to take or remedy is. Please advice.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As per your complaint it seems that it might be an allergy reaction due to some soap or shampoo or other cosmetic products, which she might have used recently for body bathing. I advise you to apply mild steroid cream like HY Chat Doctor.. You can also use anti-allergic medication like cetirizine. Avoid using any soap or shampoo or cosmetics till it heals completely. Hope this helps. Thanks.

Hello doctor,I am not satisfied with dental bonding done on the front left tooth. Enamel was removed to make room for the composite resin and the enamel is now too thin and feels sharp to the tongue\s touch because of this. Shape and feel is not consistent with the natural front right tooth. Is there any way to fix this? Want to be as conservative as possible to avoid further damage.

1) You need to visit your dentist and get the teeth evaluated, if it can be corrected at that time then no problem otherwise, you have to go for re-bonding or veneers.2) In case of veneering, only enamel will be removed, so no need to worry about enamel loss.3) Bonding is not recommended in the area where the tooth is chipped, so you should discuss it with your dentist whether to re-bond or go for veneer.4) Veneers require more preparation than bonding, but they look very natural, whereas bonding looks artificial.5) I hope my advice will help you.

Hello doctor,I had sex with a condom. But it tore in the middle of the act. But the guy did not ejaculate. I took unwanted 72 within 15 hours. I experienced withdrawal bleeding a week later that was quite normal like a period and lasted for four days. I took UPT which was negative. Can I still be pregnant?

1. You had intercourse without protection while having your periods. This increases chances of conception. So, if you have missed any period or spotting then get a pregnancy test done to confirm the pregnancy2. Unprotected sex during periods is least safe time for getting pregnant as there is no ovulation during this period3. The probability of pregnancy is high because of the torn condom. Also, the semen may contain sperms even after the condom tears off.4. You can try repeat pregnancy test at home after 10 days from unprotected sex. The best method to avoid pregnancy is to use birth control pills regularly.

Dear doctor,My age is 29 years. I had a surgery three months ago, open myomectomy (posterior wall 4x4 cm subserosal 8x7 cm) with right endometriotic cyst (4x4 cm). Now taking Novelon. Shall I try for a baby now?

1. You should not be trying to conceive as yet. You need at least one complete menstrual cycle after your surgery without any hormonal supplementation before you can safely attempt conception.2. Post-operative complications of pregnancy like bleeding and ectopic pregnancies are more common in early pregnancy.3. So it would be better if you wait till your first ovulation post-menstrual cycle. Then start follicular tracking and avoid intercourse during the fertile period.

Hello doctor,My eye power is only -0.5, but now it has increased to -1.5. I think it is due to the side effects of Perinorm tablets, which I was taking before six months. I am currently taking homeopathic medicines to remove my glass. Please suggest to me how to get rid of spectacles?

1. Hi, Thanks for writing in.2. Your eye power has increased from -0.5 to -1.5. This is an indication that your vision has got worse and not better.3. The cause of change in your eye power could be due to many reasons like - Changes in the shape of the lenses inside the eyes- Changes in the curvature of the cornea (front surface of the eye)- Changes in the thickness of the lens inside the eye- Changes in the refraction of light at the back of the eye4. You have not mentioned if there is any pain or discomfort associated with this change in the vision.5. The best way to find out what is causing this problem is to consult an Ophthalmologist who will examine the eyes thoroughly and also send you for some tests so as to know the exact reason for this change in vision.6. It may be possible that the perinorm

Hello doctor, Is it safe to take Chymoral Forte once daily for three days in pregnancy?

1. Hi, Thanks for your query.2. Yes, it is safe to take Chymoral forte once daily in pregnancy.3. It is used to treat anemia due to iron deficiency caused by heavy menstrual bleeding or other causes.4. It contains iron and vitamin C which helps in absorption of iron from food.5. It can be taken during pregnancy without any harm to mother or fetus.6. Please also consult your obstetrician about its use as he will know better about your condition and can guide you properly regarding its safety. Hope this helps.

Hi doctor,I have lots of anxiety issues. I have taken Deanxit in the past. Then I stopped it for a year. I started taking it back again six months ago. I have a long flight to take soon. I have a fear of flying. Can I take one pill of Valium 5 mg while taking the Deanxit? So, that I can sleep on the plane. I am taking Femostan Conti, Concor 2.5 for heart palpitations.

1) No, do not take valium with deanxit as they interact and cause additive effects. However, you may take deanxit alone, but then you will need to fly with an air sickness bag nearby.2) You should talk to your doctor about your medication. It is likely that the higher doses of concor and femina are causing your palpitation problem. Try reducing the dosage or switching to a different antihypertensive agent.

Hello doctor,I am having black spots on the tongue. What might be the cause for it?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor. I understand your concern. Black spots on tongue can be due to many causes like trauma, burns, nutritional deficiencies, hematomas (accumulation of blood), neurotic ulcers, fungal infection etc. You need proper evaluation after clinical examination by dentist. I suggest you visit your dentist and get evaluated. Hope this will help you. Wishing you good health. Regards.

Hello doctor,My daughter aged 7 years has a urine infection. We have done a urine culture as well as regular analysis and found that there is an infection. She has this problem from a long time. She has a bad habit of holding her urine for a long time until she can hold it no more.

1) If your daughter has been diagnosed with urinary tract infection, then she needs to take antibiotics (Cephalosporin or Ampicillin).2) Do not give her any other medicines unless advised by your pediatrician.3) Please make sure that she does not hold her urine for a long time.4) If she has developed fever, chills, vomiting, body aches etc., then please get her examined by a doctor immediately because these symptoms may be due to a kidney infection. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I need to know about cardiac dysfunction. I was told it was found on venous Doppler looking at DVT. What all information can you tell me about the blood vessels having a pulse and it being a cardiac dysfunction? That is all I was left with until the cardiologist consult.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com. In my opinion this is not related to heart disease, but it may be related to your leg veins. In some patients there may be dilated or blocked veins in legs which will cause pooling of blood in lower part of legs. This condition is known as chronic venous insufficiency (CVI). It can be diagnosed by ultrasonography. You should consult a vascular surgeon for further evaluation and treatment. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. Wishing you good health.

Hi doctor,I am a 29 year old. My doctor said that I have an umbilical hernia.Either open surgery or laparoscopy, which would be the best? After which surgery, can I lift heavy weights?I am a sports person and a bodybuilder. Please suggest.

1. For any kind of hernia, the best option is to go for surgery. The reason being in case there is a complication like strangulation of intestine, then it will be very difficult to fix the same by non-operative methods. So better to get operated once and forget about it.2. As far as lifting heavy weights are concerned, it is not advisable to do so at least till after six weeks post-operatively.

Hello doctor,I have cavities in the front two teeth. I have kept putting off seeing the dentist because of a high profile busy job. I have an upcoming appointment but am worried about a possible infection to the bone? If this is the case would I have severe pain and swelling?

1. Yes, it can lead to infection of the bone if not treated at right time.2. Pain and swelling may be there depending upon how much infection has spread.3. You should consult your dentist for evaluation and treatment.4. Get all the decayed teeth removed and restored with filling material.5. Antibiotics like amoxicillin 500 mg twice daily along with anti-inflammatory medicine like ibuprofen 400 mg thrice daily will help in reducing pain and inflammation.

What are some common causes of one sided SI joint Pain that comes and goes? I\m 25 and just had a baby (naturally) 10 months ago. Back pain started at 8 months Postpartum .

Hi, thanks for posting your query. The most common cause is spondylosis or degenerative changes in the vertebrae which is very common after child birth due to hormonal changes. This can be confirmed by MRI scan of the lumbar spine. Other causes include stress fracture of the pelvis, sacroiliac joint arthritis, osteoporosis, inflammation of the nerve root etc. You need to take a course of steroid along with analgesic Chat Doctor.

Hello doctor,Earlier this year approximately five months ago, I was diagnosed with ulnar nerve entrapment at the right elbow. Sadly, I declined rapidly and lost all my hypotheaner and some of my lumbericals in a matter of six weeks. I was operated on exactly 14 weeks ago where I had a decompression of the ulnar nerve and an anterior interosseous nerve transfer to the motor component of the ulnar nerve so that the nerve axons would reach my hand quicker. I still have no improvement and I wanted to ask if it is possible to transfer muscle to fill in the hand? And will this protect my nerves in the hand? Would it be too soon to be considering this operation?

 Hi, The nerve transfers have been done to improve the function of hand but not for filling up the hand. You can consider undergoing surgery after 6-8 months of non-improvement as your symptoms has progressed since last 5 months. If you are satisfied with the results of the first surgery then there is no need to go for another surgery. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I am undergoing the fifth cycle of chemotherapy for my left breast. For the past five months, I am undergoing this treatment. Prior to chemotherapy, I was taking ayurvedic medicine for the same problem. I took the medicine for about eight months, but it did not have any benefit. At that time, I was not aware of the exact problem. I was advised to remove the breast completely, but by the god\s grace, I was referred to a doctor in oncology. The surgery has not been performed. They started with chemotherapy. Till now, I have completed five cycles. Still, how many cycles are needed for me? Will rest be given to me after the cycles? I am unable to eat, swallow or drink. I have lost my appetite. I have vomiting. Motions are happening from when I start eating my regular diet. I am feeling very depressed and demotivated. I have lost hope from the past five months. My left breast is healing and dressing is done over it. The skin is removed over a part. My breast looks flat as if it is removed. There is itching over the breast. Are there any chances for the regrowth of my breast? If yes, how many months will it take? If it does not regrow, what is the alternative for that?

1) You can get complete information regarding your disease only after seeing your reports, so I would suggest you to upload them here on Chat Doctor.2) I have gone through your history and understand your concern.3) Regarding your query, you need to know that Chemotherapy is a systemic treatment, which means it affects all cells in the body, not just cancer cells.4) Apart from hair loss, other side effects include nausea and vomiting, fatigue, sore mouth or throat, mouth sores, diarrhea, constipation, loss of appetite and taste changes.5) Please do not worry, these symptoms will subside gradually once the chemo treatment is finished.6) Yes, you should also consult an Ayurvedic physician along with Oncologist, who will help you out with the right medicines to boost up your immunity and maintain good health.7) Also, make sure

Hello doctor,My daughter is 2 years old. Now, she is speaking only 3 to 4 words. She is not talking like other children. Please tell me if she has any kind of disorder. I have been to the doctor once and he told nothing to worry. After 2 years only they can speak. But my elder daughter spoke when she was 1.5 years old. I am so worried about her. Please tell me what to do. Her birth weight is 3.2 and now she is around 9 I think.

1st thing is, you should not compare your child with others. Every kid develop at different rate, and some may be ahead of others in some aspects while some may be behind. So don't worry about it. If she is not speaking as much as other kids who are same age then that could be due to her language development or some learning disability. I would suggest you to consult a pediatrician and get her evaluated for autism spectrum disorders, ADHD, learning disabilities etc.

Hello doctor,My 13 year old daughter has been suffering from vomitings and loose motions since two days. She had a fever of about 101.3 the day before yesterday. Our doctor advised her to take Oflox OZ and Sporolac DS. She has had five doses of Oflox OZ till now.The fever has gone and the number of motions has also reduced, though still watery but she is not eating anything. Her appetite is lost and even if she eats a little she complains of nausea though she is not throwing up. I am giving her Emeset for nausea. Is this a normal stomach infection?

 Hi welcome to Chat Doctor forum.  Thanks for calling Chat Doctor. Forum.  Your daughter may be having gastroenteritis or some viral infection. The symptoms like vomiting and diarrhea are commonly seen with such type of infections. The vomiting may be due to the disease itself or due to the medicines which were prescribed. The loss of appetite could be due to either of the above causes. For your information, the antibiotics used for treatment of gastrointestinal infections have no effect on any other infections except those occurring in the gut. So it would be better to consult a pediatrician and get treated accordingly. Wishing good health to your daughter.

Hi doctor,My front tooth got chipped away before two days. I am so nervous about it. How to recover my tooth?

 Hello, It is possible to repair the chipped tooth by using composite restoration or porcelain veneer. However, if the damage is severe enough that the nerve inside the tooth becomes exposed, then root canal treatment may be necessary. For this reason, I recommend you to visit your dentist and get an x-ray done of the tooth. After examination he can suggest you the best option. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hi doctor,My son hit his mouth on the bathtub while playing when he was 9 months old, causing both top front teeth to be pushed up into his gums. They came back down, and the dentist said they were fine. Now he is 4.5 years old, one of the teeth is ready to fall, and his dentist wants to pull out the other front tooth with a strong root. He says it is best if they both come out at the same time, but did not explain further. Is pulling an absolutely good tooth the best option? I am attaching the x-rays of the teeth.

 Hi Dear, Welcome to Chat Doctor. I have gone through your query and can understand your concerns. As per your complaint in case of trauma the tooth has to be removed as it is nonvital and there is no chance of saving it. The tooth which has already erupted can be saved by RCT (root canal treatment) or extraction depending upon the status of the tooth. In case of traumatic injury the tooth has to be extracted as there is risk of infection spreading to adjacent teeth. For any more queries you may contact me. Wishing him good health and early recovery.

Hello doctor,I suffered from terrible anxiety and OCD that seems to come and go over time. My mother had exactly the same disorder like myself. She was diagnosed with an under active thyroid and autoimmune thyroid issue. On taking medication to sort her levels she has been free from the mental health problems.I recently started getting the issue again and took a thyroid function blood test. All levels were within range but my FT3 was slightly elevated at 8.97 pmol /L. I would love an expert opinion on if periodic FT3 level increases could be causing the anxiety, depression, and OCD issues. I am currently on Sertraline 150 mg. Coupled with my mother's exact issue, and cure, I am not sure what these results could mean? What should my next step be and could this elevated FT3 cause my anxiety to start?

 Hi, Your TSH is normal (3.2) and so is your Free Thyroxin Index (FT4). The only thing which needs attention is your Free Triiodothyronine (FT3). It is raised. So, it is essential for me to know whether you have any symptoms of hyperthyroidism or not. As you are using sertraline, it may take some time to show its effect. So, I suggest you continue taking sertraline for at least another month before changing anything. You need to get a repeat FT3 done after about a week. If it is still high, then you will need to get a scan done to see whether there is any problem in the gland itself. And then change the treatment accordingly. Hope this helps.

Hello doctor,My teeth are black. It looks like it is in the starting stage of tooth decay. I do not want to lose any teeth. Please advise.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As per your complaint there can be many reasons for blackening of teeth, if your teeth are not sensitive and painful then it could be due to deposition of plaque or calculus over teeth surface. You should consult dentist and get scaling done and take proper brushing instructions so that you can maintain your mouth hygiene. If you have any other doubt then you can ask me. Thank you.

Hello doctor,I experienced a rash after an allergic reaction that spans from my chest, neck, and face. I removed the allergen from my diet and was prescribed Elidel to help clear the rash. However, I experienced over the course of two to three days, white patches which look as there is absolutely no pigment present in these areas. Will hypopigmentation from the use of Elidel fade? I was prescribed Elidel for the first time for a rash on my face. I am pale, but these are extremely white patches reminiscent of acne scars (but being completely flat). Is this likely to be permanent? Will it likely fade? If it may fade, how long would this likely take? What are my potential treatment options? No major injury to the sites was noticed aside from the generalized rash that was being treated.

 Hi, Thank you for posting your query. You should not worry about the whitish patches as they are unlikely to be due to Elidel medications. The most common cause of such patches is vitiligo. These patches can be treated with steroid creams or phototherapy. Please consult a dermatologist for further management. I hope it helps. Please get back if you require any additional information. Best wishes,

Hi,I am a 65-year-old female. My sugar level before three months was fasting 180 mg/dl, postprandial 253 mg/dl and HbA1C 8 %. After having medication, the test done a few days back showed fasting 93 mg/dl, postprandial 80 mg/dl, HbA1C 7 %, triglycerides 259 and VLDL cholesterol 51.80. Also, the blood pressure is 200/100 mmHg.I am taking the following medications:Glycomet GP 2 (one tablet in the morning and one tablet in the evening daily).Galvus 50 (one tablet in the morning daily).Tricinod 10/6.5 (one tablet morning daily).Cilamet XL 50 (one tablet evening daily).Neurokind LC (one tablet afternoon daily).Ecosprin AV 75 (one tablet evening daily).Trika 0.5 (one tablet evening daily).In the past, I was on Met XL 100 (one tablet in the morning daily), Met XL (one tablet in the evening daily), Stamlo 0.5 (one tablet in the morning daily), Ecosprin AV 75 (one tablet evening daily) and Gemer 1 (one tablet morning daily).Currently, my blood pressure is high and feeling heavy on in one side the of head and weak. Kindly suggest whether the medicine given above are correct and whether I can continue with the same or not.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum.  The treatment you have been prescribed are all right. You may continue them for some time. As far as your BP is concerned, there is nothing wrong with it. It is normal. But if you are feeling dizzy, then you must consult a physician and get yourself examined.  Hope this will help you. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I have a fever for almost three days. The first day it was not a high temperature. I had difficulty swallowing and I had a sore throat. Today, the fever is 39.3 Celsius. I had tonsillitis three times before and I have been prescribed Co-amoxiclav, Dequadin, and Strepsils. Please help.

 Hi. Thanks for your query. Fever of few days with sore throat can be due to tonsillitis or viral infection. You need to get your blood tests done like complete blood count and ESR, if possible an ultrasound of neck will help in diagnosis. In case of tonsillitis antibiotics will be required along with anti-inflammatory medicines. Avoid spicy and hot food. Take plenty of water and other fluids. Hope this helps.

Hi doctor,I am 27 years old, and I have an embarrassing problem with my penis. The opening of my penis, from where the urine comes out is not at the tip, and it is slightly lower. I am still a virgin. Will it be a problem for my sex life? Is it a major problem?

1. No need to worry about this issue as there will be no problems in your sexual life. 2. It occurs due to variation in anatomy and physiology of each individual.3. It has nothing to do with sexual performance.4. Most men have similar variation, but they don't talk about it or don't know about it.5. So, don't worry about it. Have a good day!

Hello doctor,About a year ago, I started with tingling symptoms on the face, which was most consistent but also arms, legs, and torso those are more intermittent on both sides of the body. At time B12 was low started taking it after a couple of months symptoms better. Also, I had regular neuro examination and normal MRI of the head and cervical spine.After a few months, I stopped B12 levels up then a few months after the same symptoms again and B12 low again. Started back on B12 symptoms went away in a couple of months. Last month it started signs yet, but still, on B12 it is very high 1270 so symptoms not due to that. Had another head MRI was normal. My cervical MRI did show moderate to severe changes throughout of narrowing of foraminal in all areas c3 to c7. Also flattening of ventral cord c3 through 6. I am anxious about it being multiple sclerosis.

1) The symptomatic improvement on B12 replacement suggests an underlying deficiency. However, as long as your serum vitamin B12 level is normal, there is no need for supplementation.2) Multiple Sclerosis (MS) has different manifestations, including tingling sensations.3) An MRI scan will help detect any lesions, which may be indicative of MS.4) It is best if you consult a neurologist for further evaluation and management. Hope this helps. Good day!!

Hello doctor,My first baby is healthy and my blood group is A positive and my wife\s blood group is B negative. Now, my wife is again pregnant and has completed 26 weeks of pregnancy. She has developed antibodies and the latest ICT with titer test results show 1:64. Last week, we also did sonography and that did not have any impact on the baby.Now, the doctor suggests giving some steroids in this week which will help to develop the baby\s lungs faster to prevent any complication. Is it safe? If my baby\s blood group is also negative then are there any possibilities for antibodies to develop in my wife or does the baby\s blood group does not matter at all? Should I go ahead with NIPT to find the baby\s blood group?

1) Yes, it is safe as the doctors have already prescribed steroids to your wife and she should take them as per the instructions. 2) The baby blood group doesn't matter, however, if you want to know about the baby's blood type, you can opt for non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT). Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I am a 30 year old male, who is a competitive athlete. I do not have any structural or plumbing heart issues. I have been diagnosed with WPW accidentally, and I am waiting for an ablation in 17 days. I am mostly asymptomatic, and I never had any extremely rapid heart rates. My resting heart rate is actually in the 40\s. However, I do sometimes get palpitations and every once in awhile get a run of 5 to 7 in a row. The EP I saw in the hospital prescribed me Flecainide 50 mg, twice daily. I saw another EP, who was a much older guy, as a second opinion. He seems to think I do not need the Flecainide, and maybe not even the ablation. I do not agree with him on the ablation due to recent medical studies on WPW and how ablation is recommended even for asymptomatic patients, especially athletes.My question is regarding Flecainide. I have not had any palpitations since I began taking it a few days ago, but I want to make sure this drug is not putting me at risk for creating a dangerous rhythm. Reading case studies and medical journals, it seems there is some risk. I have not been known to go into AF, and besides palpitations, I am asymptomatic with WPW. Do you think Flecainide at this dosage is safe and reasonable for the next two weeks, until my ablation?

 Hi, Thank you for asking Chat Doctor. I have gone through your query and here is my advice.- As you already know that you are having Woolf-Parkinson-White (WPW) syn Chat Doctor.  - And you don't have any symptoms related to arrhythmias.- So, no need to take any medication like flecainide, unless you have symptoms related to arrhythmias.- Just wait for the ablation procedure which will be done after 2 weeks.- This is my best advice for you based on available details. Hope this will help you. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I have depression for the last 4 years. I just want to know what Depakin are because my old psychiatrist gave me that medicine and I did not use it. It is about 5 months now but I do not feel good these days. I just feel depressed.

 Hi there, thanks for writing in. Depression can be treated with medicines like SSRI's, SARI's or mood stabilizers. So if your previous psychiatrist has prescribed you depakine then he must have given it for some reason. I would suggest you consult a psychiatrist and get evaluated again. You can also look into other treatment options as well. Medicines may need to be changed at times depending upon how you respond to them. Hope this helps.

Hello doctor,I am a mother of two - 1.7 months and 4 months old. I am currently breastfeeding the younger one. I have a problem with my right breast which makes me doubt if it is something related to cancer. Nowadays it is getting really dry and there appear cracks on my nipple. I used Avalon nipple cream. But from yesterday my breast has shrunk and my nipples too. There are a few lumps on my nipple as well. Even though I apply cream it is not getting relieved. It is getting worse day by day.

 Hi thanks for contacting Chat Doctor. Breast pain can be due to many reasons like infection, hormonal changes, fibroadenomas or benign cysts etc. You should consult your gynecologist after clinical examination. He may advise mammography and ultrasound examination. In case of any lesion further investigations will be needed. Treatment depends upon diagnosis. For now avoid wearing tight clothes. Take anti-inflammatory medication. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. I will be happy to answer your questions.

Hello doctor,We are a newly married couple and had sex two days back without any prevention from pregnancy. Could you please suggest any prevention tablet which can prevent the pregnancy after sex without any side effects?

1) Emergency pill should be taken within 72 hours of unprotected intercourse to prevent possible pregnancy. 2) Condom is the best form of contraception as it prevents both pregnancy and STDs. It must be used every time before sexual act.3) In case of emergency pill failure, I would advise you to go for urine test for pregnancy after 4 weeks of missed period. Hope this helps you.

Hi doctor,I am 26 years old female. I have an abscess in my tooth for over a year now. I am getting it infected for the second time now. The previous infection was before six months. It is present at the bottom of one of my lower molars. It hurts me a lot. How long will it take to spread throughout the body?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe, you had painful abscess in your lower jaw for more than a year. This may be due to decayed tooth or gum infection. As there is recurrence of infection in the same area, it means that tooth has not been treated properly. You should consult dentist and get examination done. X-ray of the involved region should be taken. Treatment depends upon the diagnosis. If it is due to gum infection then scaling and root planning with antibiotics will help. If it is because of decayed tooth then extraction followed by filling can help. Hope this helps. Take care.

Hello doctor,I have fever of 38 to 38.5 over past seven days. Right testicle swollen for the past five days and left testicle swollen for the past four days. On IV antibiotics, Cravit and Doribax (which replaced Rochephin). C-reactive test above 231. The doctors still cannot identify the cause. Any thoughts or recommendations? I have got ultrasounds but just shows increased blood, no abscesses.

1. Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. 2. As your son is having fever with swelling in both testicles, it could be due to sexually transmitted disease like gonorrhea or syphilis. So get him examined by a Urologist / Surgeon for proper diagnosis and treatment. 3. As he has swelling on both sides, it is not likely to be due to epididymitis. 4. For now continue with the medicines prescribed by the doctor. Hope this will help you. Let me know if you have any further query.

Hi doctor,My daughter had braces for four years but her midline is off and she has a gummy smile. Her bite is fine but her teeth are not properly aligned and she does not have bone on her left side. Her orthodontist referred her to a maxillofacial surgeon who says she needs her upper jaw broken and rotated clockwise and slightly up to compensate for the lack of bone and her bottom jaw also has to be broken and rotated clockwise. It would all then be held by plates and screws. My biggest concern is that she is a beautiful girl and he says that her face will not change at all. Is that true with this kind of procedure?

 Hi, Thanks for writing in. This is an excellent question from your part. I can understand your concerns about the facial changes due to surgery. I would like to tell you that facial surgery is done to improve function or appearance of the face. Facial structures remain unchanged except some minor changes as mentioned above. So, there should be no major change in the face after facial surgery. However, if any change in the facial structure is noticed during the post-operative period, it can be reversed only by reoperation. So, my suggestion to you would be to get a thorough examination done by the maxillofacial surgeon before proceeding further. Hope this helps.

Hello doctor,I am a 21 year old female. Yesterday, doctors have checked my blood. I am visiting a hospital frequently as I have iron deficiency anemia. The thing I am scared about is, my doctor asked me why my ferritin has not increased (just the opposite, it has decreased from 5.79 to 5.77) after three months of taking iron supplements. My other iron levels are at 39 which has increased considering those references. But, that was probably because I did not use the medicine correctly, I was only taking 5 mg a day. Another thing I am worried about is, my lymphocytes kind of got increased in my blood: (52.8) - the reference is 19.4 to 44.9, and the other one is 3.57. My neutrophils kind of decreased too (36.9) and the reference was between 41.0 to 73.0.In the last week, I had a viral infection as both my parents were sick. Is it why my levels got high? My WBC is 6.77 and RBC is 4.52. My hemoglobin is also increasing actually, last time I checked, it was 11.0 and now it is 11.2. Still low, but it was good to see that it was increasing. My thrombocyte levels got higher again, unfortunately. The first time I was told that I was anemic, my thrombocyte levels were on 485, then in my second blood test (after using iron supplements correctly it decreased to 380. And yesterday, when I checked, it increased to 435 (reference is 156 to 373).I was also told that I have an infection in my urinary system and he gave me antibiotics. Honestly, I have been always getting suspected about it since my anemia has started. Should I be worried about my condition or is it normal?

1. Iron deficiency anemia may take long time to treat. It requires continuous follow up and treatment with iron supplementation. You need to continue your iron supplements for few more months before the results can be seen.2. Your hemoglobin level is gradually increasing. It will help you improve your energy level.3. Viral infection may cause your immunity to decrease and therefore increase the number of white cells in the body. This includes neutrophil and lymphocytes. So once the viral infection is treated the numbers should come down.4. Thrombocytosis may occur with the presence of any inflammation in the body. Inflammation may be due to virus, bacteria or parasites. So if you are having infection anywhere in the body it is possible that this could be the reason for your thrombocytosis. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know

Hi doctor,I am 27 years old, and I have multiple symptoms including nervousness, anxiety and weight loss. These symptoms are troubling me a lot. I experience extreme nervousness, even when I do not have any emotional struggles. I have a feeling of having a fast heartbeat. At the age of 16, my blood report showed me a result of subclinical hyperthyroidism. I have done breast surgery. Due to my health concern, I always have my blood tested for thyroid.Before eight months, I also had done a Holter monitor, which showed my heart palpitations. On my final blood test, my thyroid results came normal. But still, I have the symptoms. I am trying for a baby. But I heard an issue that underlying or undiagnosed thyroid issue could become a terrible one during pregnancy. Do I need to consult an endocrinologist soon? Do these fluctuations are common in hyperthyroidism?

 Hi! Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. Your symptoms seem to be due to hyperthyroidism.  Hyperthyroidism is associated with increased metabolic rate, increased heart rate, increased anxiety etc. So it may cause all your symptoms. You should definitely visit an Endocrinologist as early as possible. Your thyroid function tests will give you a good idea about the status of your thyroid gland. A thyroid profile consists of TSH, FT4 and FT3 levels. I hope this information helps you. Thank you

Hi doctor,I have red bumps, which are non-itchy and keep on spreading. Also, I am attaching the picture for your reference. Please explain me.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum.  These red bumps are probably due to infection of hair follicles by bacteria or fungus. You need to take an antibiotic course like Augmenting 500 mg twice daily along with antihistamines like Levocetrizine 10 mg once daily for 3 days. You can apply Levocetrizine cream over them. You may also need topical steroids. Do not scratch or touch these lesions as it will worsen the condition. Hope this helps you.

Hello doctor,On my left eye, on the corner, nearest my nose on the sclera there is a tiny clear bubble. I have has this for years and it does not bother me. On the conjunctiva, it appears also a little puffy but I have noticed on the lacrimal caruncle there seems to be a red little spot. My eyes are always dry and I suffer from allergies. Is this of any concern or is it associated with dry eyes/allergies?

 It could be an inflammation of the eyelids called blepharitis which can lead to a feeling of grittiness in the eyes. It may also cause irritation and burning sensations in the eyes. If your symptoms persist, then it would be advisable to visit an ophthalmologist for further evaluation. A thorough eye examination may be needed to rule out other causes like glaucoma, cataract etc. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further. Take care

Hello doctor,What is HMD (hereditary macular degeneration) and what is the maximum possible impact of this disease in future on a person? Can this disease make one blind?

 Hi, Thanks for writing to us. Hereditary Macular Degeneration (HMD) is an inherited eye disorder which causes progressive degeneration of the macula, that is the part of retina responsible for sharp vision. It is caused by mutations in genes called LMNA and CNGB3. This can lead to loss of central vision, but does not affect peripheral or side vision. The main symptom is blurring of vision. Treatment options include vitamin supplements, photodynamic therapy, laser treatment etc. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I am 35-year-old male. My weight is 77 kg and height is 5 feet 6 inches. What is a skipping pulse? Is it blockage in the heart or not? My test reports is as follows, Cholesterol : 247, Triglycerides : 283, Hdl : 43, Ldl : 149, VLDL : 57, Non-Hdl cholesterol : 204, Lipoprotein a : 94, HS-CRP : 8, Sugar fasting : 90, and BP mostly : 130 / 85.

 Hi, thanks for posting your query to Chat Doctor. I have read carefully all details regarding your concern. It seems that you have high cholesterol levels with other risk factors like hypertension, diabetes mellitus etc. You need to take medications under supervision of your cardiologist. You should also do regular exercise and avoid fatty foods. You can also ask your cardiologist about possibility of coronary angioplasty if needed. Hope this will help you. Regards

Hello doctor,Can you please go through the master health check-up reports results and advise me of any abnormalities, deviations, and any detailed follow up that I should take up.I can note vitamin b12 deficiency. Can you please prescribe any medication for this? Otherwise, I am feeling healthy and normal, and it was just a routine preventive test.

 Hi, thanks for writing to Chat Doctor. You have not mentioned your age, gender or any other details. Vitamin B12 deficiency is commonly seen in elderly people, vegetarians, alcoholics, patients with diabetes mellitus, etc. But if you are young and otherwise healthy then there is no need to worry about it. As far as your CBC report is concerned, it shows low hemoglobin which might be due to anemia. You may require further evaluation for diagnosis of anemia. So better to consult a physician and get evaluated. Hope this helps. Take care.

Hello doctor,I have been diagnosed hypothyroid. I am currently taking WP Thyroid. I have taken Armour and Nature-thyroid. They all make me sick to my stomach. I tried adding generic T3 and it made my symptoms worse, that is, hair loss, cold hands and feet, weight gain, fatigue, GERD, and constipation. Would a synthetic T4 and T3 be better for me such as Tirosint and Cytomel?

1) Hypothyroidism is an autoimmune disease, and you need to take thyroxine (T4) 25 mcg daily. It should not cause any side effects if taken in proper dosage. The other medicines you mentioned are also used for treating hypothyroidism. You can try them. But they may cause some side effects like nausea, vomiting etc. So you can try T4 only or combine with T3 after consulting your endocrinologist.2) Synthetic T4 & T3 combination may cause more side effects than individual T4 & T3. So better to avoid them.

Hello doctor,I had been taking Trazodone 400 mg and Luvox for depression. My doctor prescribed Prednisone 10 mg two tablets daily for 10 days for a cough. However, since taking Prednisone, my insomnia had worsened dramatically. I stopped taking Prednisone after 10 days, but my insomnia had not improved. Is insomnia a permanent side effect of Prednisone?

 Hi there! Thank you for your contact to Chat Doctor. I read and understand your concern. I am Chat Doctor answering your concern. Yes insomnia is a common side effect of prednisolone. But it can be reversed once you stop prednisolone. I suggest you to continue with your medication. It will surely help you in coming out from this disorder. And if you require further information then feel free to ask me. Stay well. Chat Doctor.

Hello doctor,I am a 46-year-old male. A month ago, I had a heart stroke and underwent angio for blood clotting thrombus. My CBC report at that time shows a platelet count at 24 lakhs. I received CALR Exon 9 mutation analysis report today. It reads "CALR Exon 9 mutation is detected by PCR amplification of Exon 9 of CALR, followed by sequencing of coding and junctional region of the Exon. The sequence is compared with the reference sequence NM-004343 for the analysis of mutations." Hematologist prescribed me Anagrelide 0.5 mg. Do I have to worry? Can it be cured by medication?

1) The mutated gene in your case is called CALR (Congenital Amyloid Receptor). This type of mutation is associated with an increased risk of developing blood clots. 2) There are many different types of mutations and the treatment depends on the type of mutation you have. You should discuss this with your hematologist.3) In general, mutations that cause an increase in platelets can be treated with medicines like aspirin or clopidogrel.4) Mutations that decrease platelet production may require additional medicines such as anaglide. Hope this helps

Hi doctor, I am having frequent urination and feeling extremely thirsty, especially during the night after dinner and before bed. While I am sleeping, I get up just once to urinate, sometimes not at all. Do you think I have diabetes? I got my blood sugar checked, and it came out as perfectly normal (91, normal range is 80-100 for fasting). I think it is highly unlikely I am going to get diabetes in less than two years after the last checkup, but I wanted to confirm since my family has a history of this illness, and that is scaring me a bit. I am a 28-year-old male with asthma and acid reflux.I am currently on Montelukast, Advair and Omeprazole.

 Hi thanks for contacting Chat Doctor. I understand your concern. You have symptoms of frequent urine, increased thirst etc. Which could be due to Diabetes mellitus. But still there are other possible reasons like Urinary tract infection, Renal calculi, Pregnancy etc. So I would suggest you to consult a physician who will examine and treat accordingly. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. I will be happy to answer your queries. Wishing you good health. Take care

Hello doctor,Suddenly, my right eye got smaller than my left eye for a few seconds (15 seconds) and then it came back to normal. It has happened a few times now. Why is this?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. Yes this can be due to different reasons like retinal detachment or vitreous hemorrhage or optic nerve problem/optic neuritis etc... You need to get an ophthalmologist consultation and do some basic tests to rule out the cause. Hope you found the answer helpful. If you need any clarification / have doubts / have additional questions / have follow-up questions, then please do not hesitate in asking again. I will be happy to answer your questions. In the future, for continuity of care, I encourage you to contact me directly in Chat Doctor at http://bit.ly/ask

Hi,I am getting white hair from last 3 years, and the number has increased in the last 3 months. Is this the effect of water. Kindly suggest the medicine for this problem.

 Hi, I understand your concern. White hair is mostly due to genetic factors. It can be caused by stress, nutritional deficiencies or any other hormonal imbalance. You need to check with your dermatologist about it. You may get some blood tests done like thyroid profile, vitamin D levels etc. If there is no underlying cause then you can take medicines which help stop the hair fall like finasteride. You may also use minoxidil lotion. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. I will be happy to answer your questions. Wishing you good health. Take care

Hi doctor,My scar revision surgery is not healing well, and it seems worse than last week. Please see the attached picture. Involuntary frowning causes lines to run through the scar, can this be causing problems? Is it worth taping my forehead, so I cannot make frown lines? Is it worth getting a botox to stop frowning till I am healed? I am using a vitamin C and silicone scar cream to attempt better removal of hyperpigmentation. Is this a problem? I cannot tell if it is this or the creasing making it worse. I am starting to get very depressed about this scar revision. It was bad enough getting mugged and getting this wound. Now it is not healing even after a scar revision surgery. Thanks.

1) The scar is still redder than at first surgery. 2) It looks like a hypertrophied scar with thickness (not just color) 3) Vitamin C and silicon may help but it will take some time for them to work. 4) The creases in your face may cause more stress on the scar, so it may be best to wait until the scar has settled down before trying to do anything else.5) Botox would likely reduce facial movement which could lead to less creasing of the scar.6) You could try tape to prevent wrinkles from forming while healing.7) Taping alone won't fix a hypertrophied scar, but it should help reduce the amount of redness.8) I hope that helps.

Hello doctor,I had my tooth checked up last year, and the doctor told me to go for an OPG as he was planning for a root canal therapy. But due to severe negligence and work, I could not do that. It is almost a year now, and tonight I am having a painful time. Please tell me whether there is a chance of spread of infection. Please help. My infected tooth is the right first molar of the lower jaw.

1. As per your history it seems that there is an infection in your tooth which has been left untreated for a long period of time.2. The bacteria present in the tooth can cause pus formation in the area around the tooth leading to swelling and pain.3. The pain might be because of the pressure from the inflamed gum over the tooth.4. You should consult an oral surgeon who will examine the tooth and decide whether RCT can be done or extraction is needed.5. In case if RCT cannot be done then extraction is the only option.6. You need to take antibiotics and analgesic medication till you visit the dentist.7. Hope this helps

Hi doctor,My back tooth has developed a deep cavity within a few months. Now I have a pain in that tooth which got worse this morning. My cheek and throat have a sore, and they are swollen. It became a deep cavity when my filling fell out.

1. The decay had spread deeply into your tooth causing it to weaken and fracture.2. Whenever there is a deep decay or fractured tooth that can not be restored with a filling, it needs to be treated by root canal treatment (RCT) and crown restoration.3. This will help prevent further damage to the tooth and also relieve the pain and sensitivity of the tooth.4. Please visit an Endodontist immediately for RCT and crown preparation.5. Take antibiotics such as Amoxicillin 500 mg TID for 5 days along with anti-inflammatory medicines like Acetaminophen for pain relief. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hi doctor,I am 18 years old. A few days ago, I had a toothache on my molar teeth and have mobility when touched. I have a big hole in that tooth from my childhood. I guess the black circle is the vein of the tooth. I could not afford to get an implant tooth. I had pain in that tooth a year back and then now. Is it possible to cure with rebuilding this tooth instead of removing it? Here is the picture for your reference.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum.  Your question is related to dental problem. As per your complaint if there is no pulp exposure and root canal treatment was done earlier than you can go for crown placement over the tooth, and it will be a good option. In case if there is pulp exposure then you need to remove the tooth as it is infected. Hope this helps. Take care.

Hi doctor,I have PCOD, and I am planning to conceive. I am under Macfolate and Metformin tablets for the past seven months. I have regular periods for the past six months. This month, on the 11th day, I missed my period. After two days, when I checked for pregnancy, I got a negative result. Again after seven days, I got a negative result after checking for pregnancy. I am getting mucus discharge in small amounts. It does not have any foul odor. Am I pregnant? Why is it showing negative?

 Thanks for your question. You are already taking both folic acid and metformin. These medications are taken by women who are trying to get pregnant. The reason why these pills are prescribed is that they help in improving ovulation and thus increasing chances of conception. So in my opinion, you have been taking the right course of treatment. You should continue with the same medicines for at least 3-6 months before considering other options like IVF or surgery. Also, if you want to try naturally then do not worry as there is no harm in doing so. You can take natural remedies such as yoga, meditation, healthy diet etc. You can also take herbal supplements like Ashwagandha capsules which helps increase fertility. Hope this answers your question.

Hello doctor,I am 17, and my wisdom teeth started developing from more than six months, I get sudden occasion pains, it is more like pulsating, the pain feels so bad, and it makes my whole jaw ache, I cannot even eat for one to two days properly. The pains are so sharp, and I can see my wisdom teeth coming out like a halfway through, it is so painful, what should I do?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your symptoms, it seems that you have some infection in your wisdom tooth, which causes inflammation of gums around wisdom tooth. This can be because of poor oral hygiene or food lodgment. You need to consult dentist and go for X-ray examination to confirm the diagnosis. Then he may prescribe antibiotic course and analgesic to relieve pain. Do warm saline rinses. Hope this helps you. Wish you good health. Thank you.

Hi doctor,My mother has a lump on her breast. She underwent a biopsy. In the biopsy report, it came as benign. Another test showed that she has stage 3 breast cancer (she has no symptoms) and the doctor advised us for a mastectomy. The doctor recommended us to do some tests such as blood count, breast X-ray, and ultrasound. The results came normal (there is no mass lesion present, and there is no metastasis seen). Is there any confirmatory test available to find breast cancer?

 Hi, Dear,Thanks for your query to Chat Doctor virtual Clinic. I studied your query in all its details, and I understand your concerns. In my opinion, Your Mom should go for surgical removal of the lump with histopathological examination of the tissue sample to confirm the diagnosis. You need not worry about the results of the tests done on your mom. Hope above reply would help you to relieve your problem. Welcome for any further query in this regard Will appreciate writing your feedback review comments, to help the needy patients like you at Chat Doctor. Good Day!! Chat Doctor. N.M.S. Genl-CVTS

Hello doctor,My mother is facing water discharge from her eyes. With water, there is also some thick semi-liquid discharge from sides. These symptoms are also accompanied by some heaviness in the eyes. I believe this is contagious as one another family member of mine is facing the same issues.

 Hi and welcome to Chat Doctor. Thanks for your question. It looks like she has conjunctivitis or eye infection. I would advise you to visit an ophthalmologist who will examine her eyes and prescribe appropriate treatment. In case of conjunctivitis, antibiotic eye drops and antihistamines are usually prescribed.

Hello doctor,I play games on my laptop for hours a day and after a few hours, my eyes become little blurry especially my left eye. It is not that I cannot see a thing but I cannot see clearly either as compared to my right eye. I can see fully clear when it is about 5 to 10 cm from my eye (letters) but it became blurry when the distance increases. Right eye is pretty fine but left eyes are not proper as right. So what kind of medication do I need?

 Hello, Thanks for writing in. You may have developed an ocular problem called Presbyopia which is a natural aging process of our eyes and is seen mostly in people above 40 years of age. This makes near vision blurred and far vision is normal. Since you are playing computer games for long duration, this might be causing your symptoms. Please get a complete ophthalmological examination done by an Ophthalmologist and also get a detailed eye checkup done including some blood tests like TSH, FT4, Vitamin D3 levels etc. All these will help us to understand your condition better and suggest treatment accordingly.

Hello doctor,I have Raynaud\s phenomenon and cutaneous vasculitis. I am concerned about a rash on my finger that is red with a small darker dot in the center. The rash does not itch or hurt. The tissue is soft.

1. Since your symptoms are only suggestive of Raynauds disease and cutaneous vasculitis, you should get an opinion from a dermatologist for this condition.2. This could be a simple skin condition like eczema which will resolve on its own.3. However, if there is no response to treatment then you need to see a dermatologist for further management.4. As far as the rash is concerned, I would recommend you to consult a dermatologist for proper diagnosis and treatment.5. Hope this helps you. Thank you.

Hello doctor,I have pain in one of the gums near one of the upper teeth. When after eating or having something hot or cold, I feel sensitive and after that, I get pain for some time but the pain goes away automatically. I have gone to one of the dentists and she suggested me to get a root canal treatment done but I feel that the pulp or tissue of that tooth is not yet damaged and can be recovered without doing a root canal. I am attaching a picture of my tooth. Kindly suggest me whether the root canal is needed for this or I can save my tooth using some other methods?

1) Yes, it is possible for the nerve to heal by itself.2) But if there is no pus formation then you should wait and watch.3) Root canal treatment will help in preventing further infection in the tooth.4) If the tooth becomes mobile than you should do root canal treatment5) In your case, I would advise you to wait and watch until the symptoms subside completely.

Hello doctor,I am a 31-year-old male with a history of closed globe injury in the right eye 10 years ago. At that time, my vision in the right eye was hand movements only and I was diagnosed with a macular injury. Three months later, my vision slowly improved to 6/36. However, my right eye started to deviate (exotropia) and I started experiencing diplopia. My main problem is diplopia. I have used prisms, but of no use. When I try to focus on an image, I have severe diplopia. The diplopia disappears when I try to correct the squint. At present, I am doing higher studies and the diplopia is really bothering me. Will doing a squint surgery be of any use? Is there anything that I can try?

1. Your eyes are not normal, the vision is reduced due to injury to the macula.2. This does not mean that your vision cannot improve further.3. You should consult an ophthalmologist who will examine you and prescribe appropriate treatment according to his clinical examination and opinion.4. Surgery may help if the squint is very bad.5. You should also get a complete eye check up done by an optometrist as well.

Hi doctor,I have a lower wisdom tooth that has been infected chronically for well over a year. I also have an upper molar that is broken decayed and has been like this for years. The wisdom tooth oozes green pus if you apply pressure with a cotton swab. The decayed tooth is mildly painful. I saw my dentist a few days ago, who did not seem overly concerned. She slightly cleaned the gums around the wisdom tooth and prescribed me Cephalexin and sent me on my way. I have been taking Cephalexin for a few days, and yet the tooth is still oozing. My throat is red and irritated, the gums inflamed and there is no swelling in the mouth. Also, my nostril on that side is tender and painful. I am severely worried about the infection spreading to either my heart or my brain. In fact, I read an article a few days ago about a 26 year old who died from a tooth infection spreading.I do not have a fever. I have mild nausea. It is tender on that side of my jaw. The dentist had said the next thing she could give me was Clindamycin, but I have a fear of the side effects of that medicine. I already have heart problems and mild stomach issues. I have read that Clindamycin can cause severe gastrointestinal problems and arrhythmias. She also suggested Zithromax, but I have had heart palpitations while on that medication as well. I am having the teeth removed by an oral surgeon in two weeks, but am afraid of dying from infection before then. What are my options? What is the best course of action? Are there other antibiotics for this? Am I dying from the infection already? Any of your advice or help is appreciated. My other possibly relevant health history is as follows: I have high blood pressure, tachycardia, high cholesterol and mild PVC\s. I had a MRSA infection in my arm 10 years ago. I have many strep throat infections every year and frequent sinus issues. Also, I would like to mention that when I took smoothed Cephalexin capsule with a sip of water, I got a random salty taste in my mouth.

 Thanks for asking Chat Doctor.  You need to consult your Oral Surgeon immediately. Do not wait. It is better to get the tooth extracted now itself rather than waiting for it to get infected more. You should take the antibiotic as per your doctors advise. There is nothing wrong with Clindamycin. Take it under close supervision of your treating physician. But make sure that you don't develop any rashes during the treatment. Hope this helps

Hello doctor,I have pain in my upper wisdom teeth for the past one year. I had visited a dentist for a check-up. He did X-ray of my teeth and told me that food stuck between molar teeth and wisdom teeth is causing pain. So he advised me to remove wisdom teeth and filling process. But I am scared that upper teeth have a connection with brain and eyes. So, the process of teeth removal can harm my eyes and brain. Please advise me what I can do. If I do not remove my teeth, then what will be its side effect?

1) As per your history, you are having pain in your upper wisdom teeth since last one year. You need to get an x-ray done to see if there is any food lodgment or anything else which might be causing this pain. Once this problem is solved you should not worry about the removal of wisdom teeth as it has nothing to do with optic nerve or brain. 2) If you don't want to go ahead with the removal of wisdom teeth at present time, you can take a medication like ibuprofen for pain relief.

Hello doctor,I have a positive Widal test and liver function test showed a high eosinophil count. Anything eaten gets vomited out, intense weakness and fatigue. Please help.

1) Eosinophils are increased in most of the infectious diseases like malaria, typhoid, tuberculosis, etc. But it is also seen in some non-infectious conditions like allergy, asthma, bronchitis, etc. So we need to find out what has caused this increase in your case.2) It can be due to any of the above conditions or it may be due to other reasons like parasitic infection, worms, intestinal obstruction, etc.3) Get an ultrasound done of abdomen to see if there is any cause for such symptoms.4) You need to take antibiotics according to the results of investigation.5) Take anti-allergic medicines as well as vitamin supplements.

Hello doctor,I have infection of the scrotal hair. At the hair root, there is some white bump. Please suggest medicine for the problem.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. You should do warm compresses to the area to bring out pus. Then apply antiseptic ointment over it. Take oral antibiotics as prescribed by your Doctor. Hope you found the answer helpful. If you need any clarification / have doubts / have additional questions / have follow-up questions, then please do not hesitate in asking again. I will be happy to answer your questions. Best Wishes for Speedy Recovery Let me know if I can assist you further. Take care Jay Infectious Disease Specialist

Hello doctor,My mother is 51 years old and she had thyroid sometime in the past. There are no signs of it from the last one year. However, she has these bulging eyes all the time, but she can perfectly see everything with her spectacles. I do not really know what happened to her the other day. She was watching her favorite TV show and all of sudden, her right eye popped out of her eye socket and she started shouting. It was such a scary and frightening situation where I and my dad did not know what to do and out of nowhere, my dad suddenly pushed her eye with a little pressure and the eye was back in its position as usual. My mom experienced severe pain after this incident when she was rushed to an Ophthalmologist. The doctor had no clue about the reason for her eye pop out. However, I advised her to go through a few medical tests and the results are yet to come. Meantime, I just want to understand why this happened to her and will this happen regularly and what is the treatment needed to prevent this from happening again. I just do not want to think of any situation where she is alone in the home and the same happens to her. I just want her to be completely cured from this one. Please help me with my query.

 Hi, Thanks for writing in. Your mothers symptoms seem to be related to proptosis of the eye only. This means that there is some problem with the muscles around the eye which is leading to difficulty in keeping the eye in its normal position. Proptosis is usually seen in many conditions like Graves disease, Thyrotoxicosis, inflammation of the lids etc. I would advise you to get your mother evaluated by an ophthalmologist who will examine her eyes and make sure if there is any problem with the muscle movements. Also, you need to get a complete blood count done along with thyroid function test to rule out the above-mentioned causes.

Hi doctor,Recently, I had a blood test for MMR (measles, mumps, rubella) and the report that I got, am not able to interpret. Could you please see if the report is fine? Will I require a vaccination dose for the same (I had the vaccination in childhood)? Is it harmful to have the vaccination more than once?I had a rheumatic heart surgery four years ago (aortic valve replacement). Currently, I am on Betaloc 12.5 mg, Ecosprin 75 mg, and Warfarin 5 mg.

 Hi, Thanks for asking your query. The MMR antibody levels are usually high after immunization, so there is no need for revaccination. It is not harmful to receive multiple doses of the vaccine. Measles, Mumps, Rubella are viral diseases which can be prevented by MMR vaccine. There is no link with previous heart problem. Please consult your cardiologist regarding this. Hope I have been helpful. Regards

Hi doctor, My 2-year-old son is having a lot of trouble sleeping. He snores every night and tosses and turns and has trouble breathing through his nose. His doctor says he has enlarged tonsils and adenoids. I think he has obstructed sleep apnea because I hear him gasping for air sometimes.We did a sleep study and the night of the sleep study he slept well. But every night at home he has a lot of trouble sleeping. He wakes up a lot, talks in his sleep has nightmares and I think he has sleep apnea because I hear him gasping for air sometimes.The doctor said we could try Flonaise to help him. But we read that Flonaise can stunt a child's growth. The doctor said he could grow into his tonsils. And I also heard that 2 years old is very young for tonsil surgery.My questions are how worried should I be about his troubled seeping? I am not getting any sleep lately because I listen to him all night. Is it dangerous to let him go on trying to sleep and have so much trouble breathing each night with possible sleep apnea? Please help. I am very concerned.

1) sleep apnea is a common condition in kids with large tonsils & adenoids. The symptoms of sleep apnea include restlessness during sleep, loud snoring, frequent awakening from sleep, difficulty in breathing etc. You need to consult an ENT surgeon who may advise you to remove the tonsils or adenoids by way of surgical removal. 2) there is no harm in removing the tonsils if they cause obstruction to the airway while sleeping. As far as sleep apnea is concerned, it needs to be treated immediately to avoid long term complications like poor academic performance, behavioral problems, daytime sleepiness etc.3) the most appropriate treatment for sleep apnea is surgery to remove the tonsils/adenoids. However, your doctor might prescribe some medications before deciding for a surgery.

Hello doctor,I am having a premature ejaculation problem. I got married five months back. Initially two months back, I was able to do intercourse well but now before the start of the intercourse, I am getting the ejaculation. We are planning for a child now but I am much worried. My height is 187 cm and weight is 102 kg.

1) You need not worry about your sexual performance at this stage. Do not get tense or anxious about it. Premature ejaculation may be due to anxiety only. 2) Premature ejaculation is not associated with infertility.3) Premature ejaculation can occur in new relationship also. It is called as "Late ejaculatory latency" which occurs when there is absence of familiarization between partners. 4) Premature ejaculation can occur even if both partners are very experienced.5) Premature ejaculation is common in young men. But don't worry, it will improve gradually.6) You can try some exercises like Kegel exercise, which will help in controlling ejaculation.7) Practice masturbation without ejaculating. Masturbating repeatedly for 1-2 weeks will increase the volume of semen. Therefore, the time taken to ejac

Hello doctor,My daughter is 5 years 9 months old. She had a heavy cold and cough last week due to which she got a temperature of 99.8. So I gave her Calpol 250 next day morning similar range so I again continued the medicine and visited the doctor. He said continue fever doses irrespective of whether there is or not for three days post which the same day and next day she had no fever but again suddenly she got 99.5 and till night it went to 102.8 and did not reduce at all till we visited the doctor next day. He asked us to take blood urine reports are prescribed antibiotic Augmentin and continued to Calpol and SOS Meftal syrup as he sighted bacterial infection. Now she is taking antibiotic four doses plus Paracetomol but fever keeps coming back. So, by yesterday night gave her Meftal post which her fever came down. Should I continue Meftal syrup irrespective of fever level along with Calpol and antibiotic as to control the fever levels? I am worried why the fever keeps coming back the same level even though now four doses of antibiotic are completed.

 Hi dear, thanks for your question. The symptoms you have mentioned may be due to viral illness. Fever can come down when antibiotics are given, because they help in reducing inflammation. But if fever comes up again then it means that the cause of fever is still present. So, you need to visit a pediatrician and get a physical examination done. It will give an idea about the exact problem. Also, do a throat swab test for streptococcus and get treated accordingly.

Hello doctor,I started my period 15 days back. And it ended a week later. Today (five days after it ended), I had some brown discharge (this was about 11 hours ago). And this is gonna sound really weird but when I was in the shower (11 hours later) I stuck my finger up there and when I pulled my finger out there was a lot of blood and discharge and it smells terrible. Is this normal to have this much discharge so close to my past period?

11 hours after your periods should not be possible as the hormone level will come down by then and hence menstrual bleeding will also stop. You need to check with your gynecologist regarding the same. If you are sexually active then you could get pregnant again. As far as vaginal discharge is concerned it can happen at any time during the cycle.

Hi doctor,My wife took Unwanted 72 eight days back, and she got her periods after five days. The bleeding is not normal, and her period was not due. Please help.

1) She had taken unwanted 72 which contains progesterone as a contraceptive. 2) The early period can be due to the hormonal imbalance caused by the pill.3) Please do not worry.4) Take some iron supplements for few days.5) Her next cycle may be delayed by one or two weeks.6) Please wait for her next cycle and if it gets delayed by more than a week consult your gynecologist. Hope this helps.

Hi doctor,Before 19 days, I had protected sex with a part-time sex worker and freaked out after the incident. I am worried about any possible infection that could happen. I did a p24 antigen test. The results are p24 antigen on fourth day-0.125, sixth day-0.254, ninth day-0.271, twelfth day-0.274, fifteenth day-0.396, nineteenth day-0.540.I am upset about the increase in count. Please advise. I have done PCR RNA after 15 days for HIV 1, and it is not of detected status and HIV 2 ELISA on the nineteenth day which was also nonreactive. Kindly advise.

0.396 on 19th day is the highest value in your P24 test. You need to repeat this test once again to confirm if there is an active infection or not. In case of active infection, you should go for further tests like Viral load, CD4 counts, etc. to know the stage of infection. It would be better if you consult a physician and get these tests done.

Hi doctor,I have a son and a daughter. My height is 5.7 and wife is 5.1. I am extremely worried about my children height as we are short. My daughter is now 3 years 10 months old and have 14.5 kg weight and 38 inches tall. She had seizure thrice and taking some sodium liquid medicine for the past three years. My son is 1 year old and 10.2 kg weights and 28 inches tall. I want to know what would be the appropriate height of my children as per current status. Is there anything I can do to increase their height? I want my daughter to be 5.6 tall and son to be 6 ft tall. Will giving protein powder make any difference? Kindly do the needful.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor. I understand your concern regarding the height of your child. It is not unusual for a child to grow at different rates during infancy and early childhood, but it is important that parents become aware of the normal rate at which a child should grow. The average boy reaches his adult height by age 21 years. The average girl reaches her adult height by age 19 years. In general, boys reach their full growth potential sooner than girls. This means that boys usually attain their maximum height between ages 11-14 years while girls reach their maximum height between ages 9-13 years. At birth, the baby is approximately 25 cm in length (a little more than a foot) and weighs about 3.5 kg (7.7 pounds). By age 2, the baby has doubled its birth length and tripled its birth weight. By age 4, the baby will have reached

Hello doctor,Seven years ago, I ruptured my right eardrum. I recently went to my doctor because I lost some of my hearing, and I have been having pains in my right ear. My doctor told me that the ear drum healed but there is a lot of scarring on it. Why is my eardrum hurting if it is improved?

1) The pain may be due to the scar tissue causing irritation to the nerves supplying the ear.2) You need to get an audiometry test done to see how much hearing has been affected.3) If there is no significant loss of hearing then the pain can be treated with anti-inflammatory medications like ibuprofen or acetaminophen.4) If there is significant loss of hearing then surgery may be required to repair the eardrum.5) You need to consult your ENT specialist for proper evaluation and treatment.

Hello doctor,I have an anal fissure, internal hemorrhoid, SRUS, and constipation. One year ago, I was suffering from a hard stool that was difficult to pass. I went to a gastroenterologist, who did a colonoscopy and found that I had an anal fissure and internal hemorrhoid. He prescribed Sitcom Forte, Eldicet, Velgut, and Pankreoflat. He also gave me Sucralcoat Ano cream. However, every night I was in too much pain. So, early this year, I decided to consult an Ayurveda doctor who gave me some Kashayams and tablets. However, my pain did not subside. I used to evacuate the stools using my fingers. That eliminated the stools, but there was so much mucus released and extreme pain after motion. Two months ago, I went to a GP who gave me some antibiotics and painkillers for five days. During this time, I was always sleepy. I took leave from work and was always tired and fatigued. Earlier this month, I went to another GI specialist who did a sigmoidoscopy and said that it is SRUS. He said that I should not finger evacuate the stools and gave me liquid paraffin and LoX cream. Now, my current situation is that it has been three days and I am very constipated and fatigued. The pain has subsided a little. However, I am not passing stools as I used to before. After I drink water or eat something, I get a vomiting sensation. I get anxiety and panic attacks as I am scared about my condition and do not know which doctor I should consult and what I should do. Is this condition serious and life-long? Will I ever be cured? Please advise on the correct medications (allopathy or ayurveda), lifestyle changes and other things to take care.

1. I would really suggest that you visit a surgeon and get your anal fissures treated. This can only be done by surgery. 2. You will need to get a CT scan of your abdomen to look for any other pathology like polyps, tumors etc.3. Get a complete blood count and liver function test done.4. Get a urine routine and microscopy test done5. Try to avoid constipation by eating more fiber rich foods6. Take plenty of fluids7. Avoid spicy and oily foods8. Have a high protein diet9. Use laxatives if needed

Hello doctor,The stomach blossoms without food, even in the morning. It is felt more in the upper part of the stomach.

 Hi there! I am sorry to hear about your symptoms. I can understand that this could be very uncomfortable and worrying for you. The most common cause of bloating is due to excessive gas formation in the intestine. This happens when we eat certain foods which are not digested properly or if we have an overgrowth of bacteria in our gut. Another possible cause would be due to any condition of the gallbladder like stones or inflammation. You should get yourself examined by a gastroenterologist who will examine you and do some tests to see what exactly is causing it.

Hello doctor,I am getting a cardiac cath this morning. I am currently on Suboxone 12 mg, 6 in AM and 6 in PM. When I asked what they will be using to sedate, they said Fentanyl and Versed. I asked for Profol but got no answer. I spoke to a male nurse, not an anesthesiologist. If the Fenytal overrides the sub will I be in withdraw? Also, are there safety issues combining these medicines? Should I cancel this procedure?

 The use of fentanyl is common during cardiac catheterization. It has been found that it does not affect the efficacy of the catheterization or the outcome. The use of Suboxone should not interfere with the use of fentanyl. Combining these medications may increase your risk for respiratory depression. However, you should discuss this with your physician as he/she will be able to assess if the benefits outweigh the risks. You can still have the procedure, however, you should be aware of the potential side effects of the medication.

Hi doctor,I had unprotected sex on day 13 of my cycle and had an I-pill a day later. Again, I had sex in a gap of three days after the intake of tablet. I am really worried if I should take the pill again. This was a terrible mistake. Please help.

1) You did not mention what kind of pill you took.2) The only thing that is important is the timing of the pill relative to your ovulation date or the time when you would have expected to ovulate. If the pill was taken prior to the release of your egg/ovulation then it will prevent pregnancy.3) But if you were already past the point of ovulating then there is no reason for you to worry as long as you do not become pregnant within the next 72 hours.4) The other thing to be concerned about is having any side effects from the pill like nausea, vomiting, breast tenderness etc. These symptoms usually start about 5-6 days after taking the pill.5) There is no reason to repeat the same mistake again.  Be more careful next time around.

Hello doctor,I am an 18 year old female. My height is 167 cm and weight is 53 kg. I have had headaches and pain in the eyes for the last two days. My nose has been blocked for about a week now and every time I blow my nose, my head hurts a lot. It also hurts when I shake my head.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your symptoms, I would like to explain that it could be due to allergy or sinusitis. You should visit a GP doctor to rule out any other causes of headache. In case of allergy, you may need antihistamines and decongestants. In case of sinusitis, antibiotics will be needed if there is infection. You should take plenty of fluids to avoid dehydration. Hope this answers your query. Take care.

Hello doctor,I would like to know if my hypothyroidism can be cured without taking the synthetic hormones, through Ayurveda only. In the allopathic approach, the hormone needs to be taken for the rest of one\s life and I am a bit scared of it. It is possible I may also be diabetic and will need to treat this as well. Can these conditions be successfully dealt with through ayurvedic treatments alone?

 Hi, No, there is no permanent cure for hypothyroidism in ayurveda. Ayurveda has many medicines which can control thyroid problems but not permanently. You have to take levothyroxine throughout your life. But you can try some herbal supplements and lifestyle changes which can help in reducing symptoms. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further. Jay In Chat Doctor.

Hello doctor,I have an important query about the contraceptive pill. On the 2nd, my girlfriend started her period. It is now the 16th. So, I believe she is in her ovulation phase. Since her period stopped, she has begun, for the very first time, taking the combined contraceptive pill consistently at 8 AM every morning. She took the pill yesterday morning. Last night, on the 15th of March, we had unprotected sex (we thought one night without condoms would be fine). However, this morning she was in a rush and forgot to take her pill for today. It is 2:16 PM now and I have a few urgent questions:Should she take the morning after pill?How effective will the morning after pill be in protecting from pregnancy?How much will the pills previously taken lower the risk of pregnancy?Given her current stage of ovulation, what is the risk of her becoming pregnant? The period of time between the missed pill at 8 AM this morning and the time that she will take the morning-after pill (around 4 PM)?Do you recommend taking today's pill today if she is also taking the morning after pill today?Is there anything else we can do now to minimize the risk?Should we be worried?Thank you.

1. No need to worry, she should not take emergency contraception. Emergency contraception is meant to prevent conception when it occurs around fertile days. But since she was already on birth control pills which are effective in preventing pregnancy, and even though she missed one day, it still provides protection against pregnancy. 2. Missing one day of pill does not reduce its efficacy. 3. Yes, she should avoid sexual intercourse until she starts her next pack of pills. 4. Pill reduces the probability of pregnancy by more than 90%. 5. She may get delayed menstruation with pill. 6. Morning after pill should not be used as regular means of contraception.

Hello doctor,I am taking Paxidep 12.5 daily from last one and half year as prescribed by the doctor. It cures my uncontrolled thought and panic attacks. Now sometime I feel shocks in my head. I also want to know that, is there any side effect of this medicine after long time use?

1/31Paxidep is a benzodiazepine which has sedative and anxiolytic effects. It can be used for short term relief of anxiety symptoms. It should not be taken for more than six months without consulting your psychiatrist because it may cause dependence or addiction. Dependence means physical tolerance develops, so that same dose doesn't work anymore. Also, if stopped suddenly, withdrawal symptoms like dizziness, tremors etc. occur. So I advise you to visit your psychiatrist soon and get evaluated.

Hello doctor, My abdomen has been swelling for months and is quite distended. Something felt like it was moving around in my stomach about eight months ago but I did not pay much attention to it. When I awoke yesterday, my rectum was itching and my belly button felt as if it had been cut. It felt worse after work. So, I faced the mirror and pulled the skin open around my belly button and a small white worm came out. I took pictures of it and have it in a baggie and I contacted my doctor\s service but have gotten no response. I have no medical insurance. So, I need to cut to the chase and find out who I need to go to for a diagnosis of the type of parasite and treatment.

1. You should see your primary care physician first to evaluate the cause of this swelling in your abdomen.2. The painless movement that you feel inside your abdomen can be due to an intestinal obstruction or a hernia.3. Other causes of abdominal swelling include ascites (accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity), liver disease, kidney disease, pancreatic disease etc.4. Please mention the symptoms that you have along with the swelling so that we can get a better idea of what sort of problem you may have. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,My 1-year-old daughter has a WBC count of 20.3, absolute lymphocyte 10.8, and neutrophil 28. We have been asked to consult a hematologist. We are worried as in what type of issue is she having. She does not have a fever, is acting well and eating well.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. Your child may be having viral illness with elevated white blood cell counts but it should be monitored clinically. Hope you found the answer helpful. If you need any clarification / have doubts / have additional questions / have follow-up questions, then please do not hesitate in asking again. I will be happy to answer your questions. In the future, for continuity of care, I encourage you to contact me directly in Chat Doctor at http://bit.ly/ask

Hello doctor,I am a 32-year-old male with a weight of 58 kg and my height is 5 feet 3 inches. I have been married for six years. I have two children. I had yellowish like liquid discharge from my penis a year ago with burning while urinating. I consulted a urologist and he prescribed me Norflox 400 mg for one week and after which it went away. This month, I had pain in my scrotum in the right spermatic cord region above the testicle. My urologist told me to have sonography. My sonography report concluded "diffuse thickening at the right spermatic cord region." Otherwise, the report is normal.The doctor prescribed me Cefixime 100 mg and an anti-inflammatory tablet for 10 days. My pain decreased about 60%. A week ago, I had masturbation and I had pain at the same place in the scrotum. I had taken a urine culture test and I have attached the report. My question is do I have sexually transmitted diseases or urinary tract infection? Can I please know what to do? What medicines should I take for a permanent cure?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your problem, It appears that you are having chronic inflammation, causing thickening of the spermatic cord. The treatment which you have described may be helpful. But you need to get a complete examination done by a Urologist. You can ask him to check the kidney function, and if required he will treat you accordingly. In case if there is any infection then he will treat it accordingly. Hope this answers your query. Take care.

Hello doctor,I want to lose my weight. I am very obsessed. I want to get slim. Please tell me some exercises to lose weight. Please tell me exercises that I can do anywhere without any types of equipment.

1. Regular aerobic exercise like jogging or running will help with weight loss. 2. You need to eat healthy and nutritious food. Avoid fried and oily food.3. Lots of green leafy vegetables and fresh fruits.4. Start eating small frequent meals instead of heavy meal.5. Take care not to skip breakfast as it is most important meal of the day.6. Do not take junk food.7. Have good sleep pattern at least 8 hours per night.

No current medicationsFemale Age: 21 Height: 5\2/159 cm Weight: 115 lbs (last known)Why do I always have recurring knee pain...sometimes alternates from left and right...It hurts so much and it keeps coming back even though im not exerting stress on them such as from running.

 Dear, Welcome to Chat Doctor. As per your history I think that there is some arthritis in both knees. It can be due to some injury or may be due to any other cause like Osteoarthritis, Gout, Rheumatoid Arthritis etc. I would suggest you to consult an Orthopedic surgeon for proper examination and management. You will need MRI of both Knees for confirmation. For now start tab Diclofenac twice daily for five days. Avoid weight lifting also. Hope this information helps you. Take care.

Hello doctor,I had C-section three years ago. My stomach started bulging, so I visited a doctor and had sonography. So came to know that I have mild umbilical hernia 0.7. If I do proper exercise and follow ayurvedic medicine suggested by you, then is this mild hernia curable? Please help me with this. Also, can I climb stairs in mild hernia?

1) Yes you can take light exercise and follow Ayurveda treatment for your hernia.2) Yes you can climb stairs in your case of umbilical hernia. You need not worry about it as it is very common problem after pregnancy.3) You may take some medicines like antihistamine or antacid to relieve pain if any.4) Avoid lifting heavy weight.5) Do not go under stress.6) Eat more fiber foods like fruits, vegetables, whole grains etc.7) Take care of your abdomen and avoid sudden jerks to it.

Hi doctor,We are trying for a baby for three months. I have been facing a couple of issues. I feel the symptoms of periods within 18 to 20 days of my previous cycle. My regular cycle was between 25 to 28 days before. I was taking Folvite (Folic acid tablet) but started using iron tablets for two months. Please let me know what could be the cause? Or is this normal?

1. The symptoms that you have mentioned are not associated with any medication. It may be because of the stress that you are going through or hormonal imbalance due to some other reason.2. Your period can get delayed by up to few weeks and there is nothing to worry about it.3. You should continue your iron supplements along with the folic acid.4. You should also take calcium and vitamin D supplements for better results.5. Do exercise regularly and maintain healthy diet plan.6. Avoid stress and tension as much as possible.7. Take care. Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I am 18 years old. I did an 8-week cycle that ended 14 days ago. The cycle consisted of applying a topical DHT gel, exactly 100 mg of pure DHT per week (15 mg per day) for eight weeks. I did it because I read that DHT could improve my puberty and increase the size of the penis. Now I am still small and feel that my hormone levels are lower. The question is could it be harmful to make another cycle or should I stop? Now, that I have stopped should I do a PCT? My wish would be to increase the penis dimensions without damaging my HPTA axis.

1. Your concern is very valid, as there are plenty of adverse effects associated with anabolic steroid use.2. It has been suggested that steroids can cause premature closure of epiphyses, which may lead to short stature in adult life.3. Other long term side effects include gonadal atrophy and testicular failure, which may result in infertility.4. Anabolic steroids also affect liver enzyme levels, which can lead to hepatotoxicity.5. Short-term effects include acne, oily skin, hair loss, aggression, irritability, behavioral changes, depression etc.6. So if you want to go ahead with this, I suggest you to consult a qualified physician who will advise you accordingly. Hope this helps. Regards

Hello doctor,I am a 20-year-old female. About a week ago, I noticed an ingrown hair in my pubic area. I left it for a couple of days and then put a hot compression on the area, exfoliated, and tried to free the hair. I used a pin to pull the end out of the skin so I could tweeze the hair out, but I ended up popping the pump and pus just started oozing out. It was sore the next morning and I let it go until tonight, I tried to free the hair again and just ended up squeezing the lump, this time it was a bit larger, again blood and pus came out, but I pulled a hair out with the tweezers and I believe that it was the ingrown hair. I just noticed that my right lymph node in my neck and my groin area are swollen. I would rather not go to see my doctor. Any advice? And the tweezers and pin were both sterilized both times.

 Hi, Thanks for writing to us. The symptoms you have described are suggestive of infected ingrown hair. You should consult your doctor as soon as possible. Please do not use any unsterile instruments because they can transmit the infection. Hot compresses may help reduce inflammation and pain. Antibiotics like penicillin will be prescribed after culture test. Please take care.

Hello doctor,I have a continuous stuffy nose which gives me brief dizzy spells that go once I try to blow my nose (not hard). It just helps equalize pressure. My glucose, BP, heart tests are normal. I eat and drink regularly. I work in a dusty environment. The dizziness is definitely associated with congestion. How can I stop it?

 Hello, and thanks for using Chat Doctor! In my opinion, there are two main causes of this problem:1-Allergies2-Vascular problems. Allergy symptoms like nasal congestions are common with rhinitis (allergic sinusitis). This could be due to any allergen such as pollen, mold, dust, food or pet dander. In order to reduce these symptoms, you should avoid exposure to allergens, use antihistamines such as levocetrizine or fexofenadine, and use nasal corticosteroids (fluticasone) if required. Vascular problems may also lead to similar symptoms. These include low blood pressure and low blood sugar. For these conditions, I would recommend consulting your primary care physician for further evaluation and treatment. Hope this answers your question. Please feel free to contact us again for any other health

Hi doctor,As of now, I am suffering pain in my left rib which results in difficulty in breathing. I suspect this happens when I fall asleep on the sofa in an awkward position and when I woke up, my throat has a little pain but it did not persist but but it started to ache on the left rib part. I feel the pain towards my shoulder. It is almost about two days since I am suffering from this ache.I got breathing difficulty especially when I am lying in bed. But while standing or sitting, I just felt mild difficulty in breathing. Maybe there is an artery that has been damaged or had been under the bone. I am 24 years old.

 Hi, thanks for writing to Chat Doctor. Pain in left side of chest with difficulty in breathing can be due to many causes like musculoskeletal pain, pleurisy, pneumonia etc. You need to consult your physician for clinical examination and further investigations if needed. Investigation like x-ray chest or ECG may help in diagnosis. For pain relief, you can take anti-inflammatory medicines along with muscle relaxants. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hi doctor,My mother is 65 years old. All her general physical parameters are normal and she is leading a normal healthy life. But, she suffers from migraine. So whenever she has migraine headache, she takes Analgin (Novalgin) medicine.Few days back, she took the Analgin and noticed swelling in her left forearm (photo attached). This swelling has occurred in past too, but this time it persists for a week along with general body pain, fatigue and mild sweating at times. BP and temperature are normal. Family doctor suggested full body check up, chest x-ray, few blood tests and thyroid test specifically. All came normal except thyroid (report attached).She did not take any medicine for the swelling yet. Please suggest what could be the cause? How can we prevent it?

1. I would like to know if there was any trauma or injury to that area before the swelling appeared.2. Was there any fever associated with it?3. Any other symptoms like joint pains, giddiness etc.4. Did she have any diarrhea?5. Is she on any medications?6. Does she smoke?7. Does she have any known allergies?8. Is her weight increasing / decreasing?9. Does she have any history of high blood pressure/diabetes/thyroid dysfunction?10. Is she taking any steroids?11. Please give me more details about the lump. Is it red, tender, does it move around, is it warm to touch, does it have any discharge.12. Did she go through menopause recently?13. What is your mothers profession?14. Are her family members having similar problems

Hello doctor,I seem to be getting these dizzy rush sensations. They happen randomly throughout the day, but mostly when I am on the computer. It feels like an electrical pulse is surging up through the back of my head. I also feel dizzy turning side to side and when I get a headache, it feels like it is coming from deep within my left ear. It causes me to panic and get a lot of anxiety afterward. What could this electrical rush sensation be? Then, also, after I get it, I cannot look up too quickly because I feel very dizzy. It usually happens again, while typing on the computer or looking down at a smartphone.

 Hi, I had gone through your question and understand your concerns. Your symptoms are related to vertigo. The most common cause for vertigo is benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). This condition can be treated with vestibular rehabilitation exercises. For that you should consult ENT specialist. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. I will be happy to answer your questions. Wishing you good health.

Hello doctor,I am having irregular periods. Shall I take kalarchikai choornam?

1) Irregular period is not because of Chakra Choornam.2) You can consult gynecologist for diagnosis and treatment3) It may be due to hormonal imbalance.4) You need to get investigated like USG scan, thyroid profile, prolactin level, LH & FSH levels etc.5) If all above results are normal then it may be due to stress or anxiety.6) You should do regular exercise and yoga.7) Avoid stress and tension.8) Take healthy diet.9) Take care of yourself. Hope this helps you. Wish you good health

Hello doctor,Can a CT scan identify liver metastasis?

 Yes, it can be done. A CT scan is one of the most common tests used to detect liver metastases. It is also a non-invasive test and does not require any radiation exposure. A normal CT scan means that there are no signs of metastatic disease. However, it may show a number of other abnormalities in the liver including: hepatitis, cirrhosis, fatty liver, fibrosis, cysts etc. So if there are no signs of liver metastases on a CT scan, then it is unlikely that they exist.

Hello doctor,I have a problem. My teeth are brittle because if I eat something hard they sometimes break or I would feel a hole developing and this is stressing me out because I have already taken out three of them and now another one is close to being totaled. Earlier today I ate something and I think it damaged them. I am tired of taking them out.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. I understand your concern. At present, there is no way to prevent tooth decay in permanent teeth. The only alternative is to remove the tooth and replace it with an artificial substitute called dentures. Denture can be made from acrylic resin (plastic) or metal alloys such as gold, palladium, nickel, etc. They are designed to fit over the gums and provide a natural-looking smile. In some cases, however, dentures may need to be relined every few years to maintain a proper fit. Relining is a procedure done in the dentist office where new denture material is placed over the existing denture. It is not a complicated process and does not require any special preparation. You should consult your dentist for further information and treatment. Hope this helps. Take care.

Hi doctor,My wife is suffering from peripartum cardiomyopathy for the past six months. She is taking beta blockers and diuretic medicine for the past four months. Her heart EF is 38 % with flat T in ECG reports. Her heart function is normal. How many days does it take to get cured?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. Peripartum Cardiomyopathy can be an acute or chronic illness. It occurs during pregnancy or within 5 months after delivery. It may occur as a complication of pregnancy or postpartum (after delivery) cardiac dysfunction. The mainstay treatment remains diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, beta-blockers. Please consult your treating physician regarding this. Hope you found the answer helpful. If you need any clarification / have doubts / have additional questions / have follow-up questions, then please do not hesitate in asking again. I will be happy to answer your questions. Best Wishes for Speedy Recovery

Hello doctor, My age is 23, I have undergone a surgery for bladder augmentation nine years back, since then I am doing Bicarbonate wash every week. Please suggest an alternative for this procedure.

 Hi thanks for contacting Chat Doctor.. Sometime urinary stones can be treated by taking medicines like allopurinol or probenecid. But if not effective than surgical removal of stone may be considered. In case of kidney stones no treatment is required as they pass out through urine. But in case of ureteral stones surgery is needed to remove them. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. Wishing you good health

Hello doctor,What is your recommendation for someone with PTSD, depression, and anxiety?

 Hi, I would recommend you to meet a psychiatrist and discuss all these issues. You may need medication like SSRI or SARI to control your symptoms. You will also have to do some behavioral therapy like cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) which can help you overcome your problems. For now, avoid stressful situations. Take rest and relax yourself. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. Wishing you good health.

Hello doctor,I am a 20-year-old boy. I am very thin. I want to gain weight in short span of time. Is there any ayurvedic medicine for this?

1) You can take some multivitamin tablets and healthy diet rich in carbohydrates with proteins.  2) Take some protein rich food like eggs, pulses, milk products etc., and fruits and vegetables.3) If you are not able to put on weight despite consuming good amount of calories then you should consult your physician who will advise you about BMI and other tests as per requirement.4) Regular exercise is also important, so you can start with brisk walking or jogging for 45 minutes daily. Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,My 37-year-old wife is 14 weeks pregnant with my second child. Her level one scan is normal and the double marker is also fine. But, the doctor has told to get DNA test that is an NIPT test. Is it important? If level 1 and the double marker are fine then DNA and NIPT test should also be fine right?

 Hi welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As your consulting doctor says this is important, I think in all cases as these tests will give more accurate results than others. So go for it without any hesitation. In addition to this, do regular checkups of blood pressure and urine examination. Eating healthy foods and taking fresh fruits and vegetables daily will help her to have a healthy baby. Avoid smoking or alcohol if she takes them. Take care.

Hello doctor,I was suffering from minor Achilles tendinopathy and visited a physiotherapist today to get it checked. During the session, he performed some deep tissue massage on the calf (which was very tight) to relax it, which was very painful. After the massage, I experienced sharp pains while walking (which was not there beforehand), and when I brought this up with the physio, he said it was normal because it was the first time I had gotten deep tissue massage on that area.I have been icing the calf and resting, and while it has gotten a little better, it still hurts to walk. I have my exams tomorrow which I have to get to and other events on the weekend where I have to be (and will involve walking). I am worried about how I can see as I cannot walk at all. Is it normal to experience such pain after deep tissue massage to tight calf muscles, or did I sustain some injury (say a muscle strain or something similar) and need to get it checked out?

 Hi thanks for asking question. In my opinion you should visit orthopedics doctor and go for complete examination. As deep tissue massage might have caused some trauma in your tendon. So it is better to rule out any soft tissue injury... If diagnosed then take rest and apply ice packs. Physical therapy exercises will help to improve range of motion and strengthening muscles around ankle and knee joint.... Hope it helps. Take care

Hello doctor,Approximately one week ago, I had my wisdom teeth removed. On my lower left, I have a dry socket, which I am getting treated for via packing (at least I think that is what it is called). On the right side, healing is just fine, however, I noticed some white stuff lodged in the gum. I am not sure if it is food or scar tissue because when I tried to get it out with a toothpick, it did not come out very easily, so I left it alone. Is this food or scar tissue? It is mildly bothersome.I brush my teeth but know to be careful around the surgical sites so they do not get irritated. It seems like a lot of plaque builds up back there because of this, and I am not quite sure what to do. Also, there is a very small spot of red gums on the front side of my second molar. I put a bit of mouthwash on it with a toothpick and left it alone.I have two questions, what is the whitish stuff that feels like food trapped in my healing gum socket? And what is this small patch of irritated gum on my second molar? Any help is appreciated.I am currently on Celexa (for depression), 600 mg of Ibuprofen (for wisdom tooth pain).

1) The white matter stuck in your gum is most likely food remnants.2) The red spot on your second molar is most likely a minor irritation from the surgery.3) Do not try to remove any of the remaining food particles as it will only aggravate the condition.4) You should continue with your medications till the wound heals completely.5) Maintain good oral hygiene by brushing and flossing regularly.

Hi doctor,I am 22 years old. I have a problem of hair fall. My hairs fall so quickly, and there is no regrowth of hairs. Please help.

1) First get your thyroid function test done to rule out hormonal imbalance.2) Post that, consult dermatologist for scalp examination and further management.3) Also, take biotin supplements as it helps in hair growth.4) Hair loss can also be due to stress or anxiety. So try to relax and practice deep breathing exercise daily.5) Take healthy diet rich in proteins, vitamins, minerals like green leafy vegetables, pulses, sprouts etc.6) Apply coconut oil regularly on scalp.7) Avoid using too much chemical shampoo.8) Shampoo twice a week and use conditioner after every wash.9) Wash your hair at night before going to bed. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us

Hello doctor,I had a tooth extraction a week back and three days later, the clot came out of the tooth. Now I am not in any pain. I get the occasional tingle or slight pain but I am terrified of getting dry socket. I am rinsing with salt water every half an hour or so. Should I be worried about it developing?

1) You should consult dentist again if there is no pain.2) As you have mentioned that clot has come out, then you have to take care that you do not injure the socket.3) Rinse with warm saline solution to keep the area cleaned.4) Do not chew food from that side for at least 5 days after your extraction.5) You can apply some ointment over the socket like mucosal ointment.6) Take antibiotic course as advised by your dentist.7) Do not disturb the clot by touching it.8) Brush gently with soft bristled toothbrush.9) Do not smoke or consume alcohol. Hope this helps. Thank you

Hello doctor,I have psoriasis for a long time for which I have been taking Methotrexate. Last week I got my iron studies and blood test done. My transferrin saturation, and total iron levels are low but hemoglobin is fine. Kindly advice.

1) Hemoglobin level is normal so there is no need to worry about anemia2) Iron deficiency can be due to excessive bleeding or poor absorption of iron in intestine3) You may take ferrous sulfate tablets once daily for one month4) Take plenty of green leafy vegetables5) Avoid tea and coffee6) Take multivitamin supplements Hope this will help you Best wishes

Hi doctor,I am a 60-year-old male. I have swelling and discomfort in the testicle and sperm canal. I have wandering aches and pain around the groin area including buttocks and inner thigh. I am having these symptoms for the past four to five months. I am not taking medications. I have tried Neurontin with a low dose of 100 mg taken twice daily for two weeks. But I stopped it because of its side effects, and it does not relieve my symptoms. I had shaking episodes of anxiety and worried that I might have contracted herpes 2. I have tested for all the common STDs which showed a negative result except herpes simplex showing a positive outcome.I am also experiencing impotence. I had undergone a hernia operation with a net before 11 years. Also, I had undergone a small hernia surgery on my right side which is not very visible. I do a lot of swimming about 10 kilometers per week. I have overstrained myself. I had a sexual encounter with someone whom I do not know a lot. I have wandering pain around my lower abdomen and groin. Often it is hard to distinguish where the pain gets originated. Sometimes, it involves both upper and inner thigh in the vicinity of the testes sack. I have tenderness and minor swelling in my testis and epididymis. I have difficulty in erection.

 Hi, Thanks for posting your query. The swollen and tender testicles can be due to infection or inflammation of the testicle. It can also be due to varicocele (varicose veins in scrotum). You should get an ultrasound scan done of the scrotum along with routine blood tests like CBC, ESR, CRP etc. to rule out any cause of the problem. Meanwhile, you should take some antibiotics like Augmenting tablets as well as analgesics like diclofenac sodium. Hope this helps.

Hello doctor,I just recently started urinating blood when I go to the restroom. I have a constant urge to urine and I have no idea why out of the blue this is happening. I am a male, 36 years old, 6'2", 190 lbs. I have no medical issues or past history of kidney problems or cancer. Can it be due to STD?

 It can be due to STD or some other infection like UTI (urinary tract infection). There may be pain in the lower abdomen and fever also. Get your urinalysis done for confirmation. Get treated with antibiotics as per culture report. Also get a routine urine test done for microscopy and culture. Consult a urologist if there is any doubt. Take care.

Hello doctor,My foreskin of the penis is tight. Is there any problem in the future during sex? My age is 20 years, male, and single.

1) Does it cause any pain or discomfort when trying to retract the foreskin over the glans penis? 2) Are there any redness, swelling, pus discharge from underneath the foreskin? 3) Do you have any other symptoms like burning sensation while urinating or ejaculating?4) What is your family history of any genital conditions?5) Are you able to retract the foreskin completely?6) Have you ever had an STD (sexually transmitted disease)?7) Do you practice safe sexual practices?8) Do you wear tight undergarments or clothes that restrict blood flow to the penis?9) Do you masturbate frequently?10) Do you use lubricants during intercourse?11) How often do you have intercourse? A thorough physical examination should be done by your physician. There are many reasons why one

Hello doctor,I have minor beta thalassemia which I got from my mother, but unlike her (asymptomatic), I have anemia symptoms like paleness, shortness of breath after the least effort, feeling tired all the time, broken nails and I want to know if it could be due to lack of iron? Could people with minor beta thalassemia also get iron deficiency anemia? Knowing that I get heavy cycles and my diet is very poor.

1. Iron deficiency can cause anemia in any person.2. Thalassemia does not cause iron deficiency as such.3. But since your hemoglobin is low, you might require frequent blood transfusions.4. As you mentioned that you get heavy periods, so check for hormonal imbalances.5. You need to take nutritional supplements like vitamin B complex, vitamin D, calcium etc.6. You should also increase the intake of green leafy vegetables and fruits.7. Eating more meat as well as eggs will help you.8. Since your diet is poor, you can start taking health supplements containing essential nutrients.9. You can consult a physician or a nutritionist regarding this. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor, Me and my fiance had sex and seems out of fear took Ipill because it was unprotected for sometime so many doubts in mind but no leakage or injection of sperm, etc. Three time UPT done but all negative. After taking Ipill period comes as per regular cycle for 4 days but next period only one two hours bleeding and then stopped. This month period is skipped till date say it late by 25 day including today. Do I need to visit doctor or wait?

1) You have not mentioned your age.2) The pill can cause irregularities in periods, if there is any doubt regarding pregnancy, you should get an ultrasound scan done.3) However, since it has been 25 days after missed period, you may be pregnant.4) If you want to confirm the pregnancy, you may go for blood test for beta Chat Doctor.

Hello doctor,I am of 21 and I am suffering from permanent blurry eye vision in my only right one. It is by birth. Is there any chance to cure it without any permanent glasses and without any operations. Suggest me, please.

 Hi, Thanks for writing in. This needs a thorough clinical examination and proper tests done to rule out any possible cause for this type of visual impairment. There may be many causes like refractive errors, cataract, glaucoma etc., You need a detailed ophthalmic evaluation which should include an OCT scan of your eyes to check for any damage to the retina or optic nerve. Also, a dilated fundus examination will help us to see whether there is any abnormality present. Please get back to me with the reports so that we can plan further treatment.

Hello doctor,I saw these lesions on my scrotum and outer genitals yesterday. I am currently on day 6 of chicken pox. What could these lesions possibly be from? Is this an STD?

 Hi, Thanks for posting your query in Chat Doctor. The lesion which you have mentioned is probably due to chickenpox as you are having it at present. These lesion may not be due to sexually transmitted disease but can also be due to some fungal infection or bacterial infection. You should consult dermatologist for proper diagnosis and treatment. Hope I answered your question. Take care.

Hello doctor,My last period started a month back. The next week I was on a Z pack for a throat infection. I have not gotten my period this month. I am 7 to 10 days late. Took six different brands, etc. Pregnancy tests are all negative. What could be causing this late period? I am under a lot of stress also.

 Hello, Thanks for writing to us. I understand your concern. If your pregnancy test is negative and you had taken antibiotics, it can delay your periods by up to one week. As you mentioned that you are stressed out, it may also contribute to delayed periods. Please wait for another week and if no periods come then consult gynecologist. Hope this helps. Take care.

Hello doctor,I am a 27-year-old female. I have been on Depo-Provera for six years. I am not taking any other medications. Lately, I have been experiencing severe mood swings and have not been myself. One minute I am dancing around the room and could not be happier, the next I am either crying or very angry. Normally, I do not cry and I am usually pretty laid back. I have also been getting dizzy mostly when I stand up or walk up the stairs. I have trouble sleeping and or sleeping too much. I am hungry all the time, however, when I do eat I feel nausea. I have done some research and have found that these symptoms are both common with the injection and also with pregnancy. How do I tell, if these are pregnancy symptoms or if it is because of the Depo shot? I did miss my last shot three months ago. Last month I took a home pregnancy test it came back negative. Will a home test be enough to tell if I am pregnant or not?

 Hi, Thanks for posting your query. The symptoms you have mentioned can be due to Depo Provera injection but there is no way to confirm this as there is no blood test available to detect the presence of progesterone in blood. A urine pregnancy test will help to exclude pregnancy. In case you are still having doubts you can go for serum Chat Doctor test which will give you an accurate result. Hope this helps.

Hello doctor,I had stomach pain after which my report was confirmed as gallbladder stones. What is the further procedure? Please let me know all the details, including the cost.

1. Gall bladder stone removal is done by either of the two procedures. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy or open surgery. 2. Cost depends upon the hospital and surgeon and also whether it is laparoscopic or open surgery. In general, laparoscopy costs more than open surgery.3. Laparoscopic surgery is less invasive and has faster recovery time, but there may be some complications like infection, port site hernia etc.4. Open surgery has longer incision and recovery period is slower, but there is lesser risk of complication. Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,My 24 days newborn son is suffering from midgut malrotation. Is this a problem?

1. Yes it can be treated by surgery or medical management.2. Midgut malrotation occurs when the intestines fail to rotate into their normal position in the abdomen while they are developing in the womb and after birth.3. The condition can cause an obstruction of the intestine and possibly even death if not treated promptly.4. It may also lead to other problems such as failure to thrive, vomiting, diarrhea, jaundice and blood in stool.5. Surgical repair is usually recommended at 6-8 weeks of age.6. Medical management consists of giving supplemental feeds through a tube placed directly into the small intestine (NASOGASTRIC TUBE) for few days until the baby has recovered from the crisis.7. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,Obstructive jaundice has been detected. ERCP was done. Serum bilirubin still very high. MRCP report says everything is alright but neither serum bilirubin nor yellowness has got less.

1. What do u mean by obstructive jaundice?2. I think that your doctor must have told you what he/she found in the ERCP.3. In case of severe obstruction, surgical correction can be considered.4. Please wait for another 2-3 weeks and get a repeat liver function test done.5. If it does not come down to normal then you may need surgery.

Hello doctor,I am 28 years old. From the past two weeks, there is a slight pain in my right ear. I tried Clear Wax ear drops and normal ear drops then there is a relief for a certain period then again mild pain is coming the next day. When I wake up in the morning there is a very slight headache kind on the right side and some sort of discomfort in my right ear. There is not severe pain but certainly, there is some sort of mild pain. I also noticed whenever I tried using earbuds in my left ear to clean then I am getting cough as if some sort of itchiness sensation in the ear is causing immediate cough in the throat and normal again after I take earbud out. I want to know whether I should consult ENT specialist immediately or if there are any ear drops in particular to use before I go to ENT doctor.

1. The symptoms that you have described can be due to ear-related problems like Otis media, middle ear infection, etc. To rule out these causes, an ENT examination is required by your GP. So visit your GP first. 2. As per your complaints, I would suggest you to follow the following steps:- Keep warm compresses over your affected ear.- Take paracetamol tablets (for pain) and decongestants.- Take antibiotics as prescribed by your GP.- In case of otis media, a course of antibiotic + antihistamine will help.- Avoid wearing earphones till your ears get better.- Avoid loud music, noisy places, etc. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. I will be happy to answer your questions. Wishing you good health.

Hi doctor,I had a month old twin baby girls. They were born in the 34th week of pregnancy. One baby was 2.2 Kg, and the other was a little weaker weighing 2 Kg. Since there is not enough mother\s milk after several attempts, I had to go for artificial milk powder. Initially, as suggested by the hospital pediatrician, they were given Dexolac Special Care, but after 20th day when their weight was around 2.4 Kg, they were given to Dexolac Premium 1. Out of the 2 babies, the weaker baby is responding well and quickly gaining weight (taking around 75 ml milk every 3 hours). But the baby which was born stronger is not drinking sufficient milk (45 ml in one feed, at an interval of around 3 hours), and is taking around an hour to take one feed. Also, she is having issues of gas and constipation. Because of constipation, she keeps crying. Now, this baby is not gaining weight and seem to be weaker. Please suggest what we can do in this case and shall we switch her milk to Lactogen or some other company?

1) The reason why your child is not gaining weight could be because he/she is not taking adequate milk. 2) As per your description it seems that the child has low appetite. The cause of low appetite could be due to many reasons like - poor suckling technique, gastronomic reflux, emotional distress, etc. 3) I would suggest you to consult with a pediatrician who will examine your kid and give you proper guidance. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I am 24 years old. I am married. I have a bit problem in my sexual life. Whenever I insert my penis in her vagina she told me that when I insert full penis in her she feels pain. Is it normal or not?

1) Yes its normal to feel some amount of pain during initial penetration.2) But if this is happening every time then it needs further evaluation.3) The most common cause for this could be the hymen which causes burning sensation. This can be due to improper lubrication of the vaginal wall. It will improve with more and more practice. So don't worry.4) Another possibility is the tightness of the vagina.5) Also one needs to know that there may be some other reason like cervical cancer etc. so I suggest visiting a gynecologist who can examine the lady and give a proper diagnosis. Hope this answers your question.

Hello doctor,I am 7 weeks pregnant and I want to terminate it. Please suggest me some natural methods.

1. You can take tablet misoprostol 200 mcg under the tongue twice daily for three days. It will cause abortion by causing contraction of uterus. 2. Taking high protein diet like milk, eggs etc. Will help in proper growth of fetus.3. Avoid stress, take rest.4. Take vitamin B-complex supplements.5. Do not try to induce abortion at home by using herbal medicines or other agents because they may be harmful to your health. Hope this answers your query.

Hi doctor,I went for an annual health checkup and found there was a minor change in the ECG. I am 28 years old. My weight is 80 kg and height is 163 cm. My BMI is 30 and waist circumference is 90. My BP 130/90 mmHg. I am also attaching my ECG report to you. I need your suggestion. Thank you.

1) The ECG indicates a mildly elevated heart rate of about 74 beats per minute (bpm). This is normal for age and gender. It may be due to anxiety or some other cause like thyroid dysfunction or excessive caffeine intake.2) Your blood pressure reading is slightly high but it is still within the normal range. You should monitor your blood pressure at least once daily for one week and then discuss with your physician if this needs any treatment.3) Your waist circumference is slightly above the normal limit. A waist circumference greater than 94 cm in men and 80 cm in women increases the risk of coronary artery disease.4) Your BMI is slightly above the normal range. BMI greater than 25 is considered overweight and BMI greater than 30 is obese.5) There is no need for concern as long as all your other parameters

Hello doctor, My baby is 5 months old. I have given vaccine to her on 18th of this month, since then she was having fever every four hours the other day too. After that she is not drinking breastmilk and formula too. Now only drinks at night time while sleeping. What should I do?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As your child is 5 months old and had fever after vaccination, it could be due to some infection or allergy to food, which can be taken care by giving antibiotics and anti-allergic medicines. But before starting any treatment, first get done blood test for Leukemia, as the symptoms like high grade fever, loss of appetite, etc., can occur in leukemia also. So get done CBC, if needed, go for bone marrow examination. Hope this will help you. Wishing good health to your kid. Thanks.

Hello doctor,I am a 61 year old female and a diabetic for the last ten years. I had a cystocele repair surgery along with hysterectomy and cervix and ovaries removal five months ago. There is a slight discharge on and off. I did a urine culture now and found that there was a colony of Enterococcus faecalis. Please let me know if this is serious and whether I have to take a course of antibiotics for it. I do not have any symptoms of UTI or abscess etc. Also, the cystocele repair was not a success as the bladder is still at the mouth of the vagina. Please also let me know if anything can be done to put the bladder back in place. If this is not done, what are the repercussions?

1) Enterococcal bacteria usually cause no harm unless they get into your bloodstream.2) You need to take an antibiotic like vancomycin to clear up the infection.3) A successful repair of the cystocele depends upon the size of the defect and the amount of scar tissue.4) In some cases the bladder needs to be moved back into its normal position by doing a procedure called a sling.5) Usually the cystocele gets better over time but may require more than one operation.

Hi doctor,I have been with the same partner for 8 years now. During these all 8 years I have had several UTIs with some leading to severe kidney infections. Last week after almost two years of not having a UTI I felt the horrible symptoms again. When going to the doctors UTI urine test came back positive. The doctor prescribed me seven days Nitrofurantoin antibiotics which cleared the pain and seemed gone entirely. Unfortunately two days later, the symptoms came back (please note that I had sex with my partner the day before) with burning sensation when urinating and painful when standing with the need to go toilet every 2 to 3 minutes. I went back to the clinic the same day to get it checked and take more antibiotics.But to my surprise, the urine test came back clear for UTI, and my symptoms disappeared. Then the doctor advised me to get tested for Chlamydia as the symptoms can sometimes be mistaken to be UTI. I have been diagnosed with Chlamydia at the beginning of this same relationship and was treated for it. My partner was also tested, but his results came back negative. Is it possible that the treatment that I had for Chlamydia 8 years ago did not clear it entirely and this lead to several UTIs and kidney infections? And also, would the antibiotics for UTI clear Chlamydia? Thank you in advance for your help.

1. In your case, there is no doubt that the cause of repeated UTI is Chlamydia trachomatis. It is a bacterial infection that causes inflammation of urethra and bladder wall. The symptoms you describe are typical of Chlamydia infection.2. This is why I advise you to take azithromycin or doxycycline for 7-10 days. These medications are effective against chlamydia infection.3. If you do not take any medicines and start sexual activity with another person, the infection will recur again.4. The antibiotic you took earlier might not have cured the infection completely. So you should repeat the course of medicine.5. You should continue using condoms during sexual activity till the infection has completely subsided.

Hello doctor,I am 42 years old and have been diagnosed with multiple uterine fibroids. Two of them are a little more than 3 cm at different places in the uterus. In the past, I have been operated for endometriosis level 4. As usual, the gynecologist is suggesting a hysterectomy. But since I am in my perimenopausal phase, can the fibroids shrink with medication? I have been suggested Fibroease.

1) Yes, by taking medicine like fibroase.2) However, it will take time to show effect.3) Also, your condition will be monitored by trans-vaginal sonogram to see whether there is any reduction or not. 4) You should also know that if there is no improvement after six months then only surgery is recommended.5) So don't rush into surgery without a proper counseling from expert gynecologists.

Hello doctor,My daughter is 18 months of age. She was born at 38 weeks due to placenta failure and oxygen issues. She was 5 lbs 10 ounces at birth and was healthy (did not have to stay in the NICU). She hit all of her milestones in terms of rolling over, crawling and walking (walked at 14.5 months), but is a toe walker. Her left leg (to us) is weaker than her right and her left leg does not bend as much as her right leg. She began to speak around 10 months of age then her speech left. We came to find out she had chronic fluid and a month back she had tubes placed. I am hearing more vowel and consonants now but no true words yet. She makes fine eye contact. Her non-verbal communication is good. She responds to her name but not always. She is beginning to learn more of what we are saying, she plays with some toys, is not terribly social. We are thinking that she may be on the autism spectrum and we have an evaluation soon to determine that. But my question is, could this be cerebral palsy?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As your child has been diagnosed with Cerebral Palsy, it can not be ruled out completely. But I would like to know whether your child is having any seizures or fits or not? Since these symptoms are seen only in cases of epilepsy, so if your child has not got any such symptoms, there is very less chance for it to be Cerebral Palsy. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hi doctor,I sat on my testicle before two months, and I experienced an initial sharp pain for a few hours. I went to the ER and did a blood test, urine test and an ultrasound. Torsion, as well as infection, was ruled out.The exact incident occurred before few days. I did a urine test and another ultrasound. Torsion was ruled out once again. When the pain flared up again, I went to the doctor back. Again, I did an ultrasound, urine test, and blood test. Torsion and infection were ruled once again.The doctor pointed out a little bit of fluid around my testicle, and I had no pain. But, still, I have pain in my testicle. What was ruled out with these tests? From where does the pain arises?

1) The pain may be due to epididymitis. Epididymis is a small coiled tube at the back of each testicle which stores and carries sperm from the testicles to the vas deferens. Inflammation of epididymis causes pain and swelling over the scrotum.2) Testicular torsion is when the testicle twists on itself and cuts off its own blood supply.3) Orchids is inflammation of the testicle, causing pain and redness.4) Testicular cancer can also cause pain in one or both testicles.5) There are many other conditions that can cause testicle pain including STDs, prostatitis, kidney stones, etc.

Hi doctor,I got an accident before a month. I got a right knee ACL ligament type 2 tear. Is it possible for the type 2 ligament to get cured by itself without operation and if so, how many days does it take to heal?

 Thanks for your question at Chat Doctor. I am not sure what is the course of treatment given to you after injury, but here I would like to tell that surgery is the only option to treat this problem. You need to do MRI scan to see the extent of damage and severity of injury. I can also suggest some physiotherapy exercises which will help in early recovery. Hope my advice will be useful for you.

Hi doctor,I am a 30 year old female. I have a minor issue. About a month and a half ago, there was an incident where the condom broke. About 36 hours later, my husband got me four of the morning-after pills, and I took them all at once. Three days later, I started experiencing nausea, soreness of the breasts, lower back as well as abdominal pain, frequent urination, and tiredness. This carried on for almost a week. I then noticed a light brown discharge. And, from the next day, I bled for six days. I usually bleed for seven days. After my periods, I still had the symptoms.Nearly a month later, I got my periods again, but on the first day I had severe cramps and used a tampon. On the third day, there was a slight discharge which was brown in color. On the fourth day, there was some bleeding, but not at night. Today would be day five, and I still do not see blood. My main concern is that my vagina feels different. It is more firm than usual and feels tight. I sometimes feel a pulling sensation. Could it be due to the morning-after pills? I did home pregnancy tests, and it came back negative. It has been a month and 18 days now, since the intercourse.

 The symptoms may be related to the use of emergency contraception. A period of irregular bleeding with spotting is common after using this method. The tightening feeling might be related to the hormonal changes in your body. However, if you have any other concerns or problems, it is best to consult a gynecologist. Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I am a 29-year-old female. I was just diagnosed with chronic urticaria. I went to an allergic specialist for skin testing because my skin was so sensitive I reacted to everything. They then did the RAST test on me. Everything came out class 0 except for egg white, wheat, and oats being class 2 and milk, and hazelnut being class 1. Can these cause anaphylaxis? How accurate are the RAST test? I was put on an elimination diet but the hives are still there. I occasionally get angioedema with it also. Can angiodema cause anaphylaxis? As you can see I am so scared for my throat to close up that I am scared to eat anything. I have only been eating a couple of things daily and live off that.

1. The RAST test is very specific and usually accurate. However, the sensitivity of the test depends upon the level of antibody in your blood. So when they say that the level of allergen is less than certain amount, it doesn't mean that you will not be reactive to it. You may be mildly or moderately reactive to it. 2. Angiodema is not a common complication of food allergy and anaphylaxis. It is more likely to occur due to insect stings or some medications like beta-blockers etc.

Hello doctor,Since the last 10 months, my periods are very irregular. I get periods only once every three to four months. I am on treatment for abdominal TB since the last one and a half years. I take Sompraz D20 on an empty stomach in the morning. I take Duonase nasal spray (two puffs in each nostril) twice a day. I take Immunace Forte after lunch and Libotryp at bedtime. So, why are my periods not regular? Is this a side effect of my medicine or could it be due to a disease? Recently, I was also prescribed Uprise-D3 (60000) once a month for six months. My recent 25-OH vitamin D total is 21.1 ng/mL. I also have sudden weight gain. My weight in the last one and a half years increased from 57 kg to 81 kg. I also have a chronic nose block.

1. Irregular periods are common with tuberculosis. The Chat Doctor. 2. Your weight gain can be due to your medications as well as the tuberculosis itself. You need to assess your nutritional status by doing body composition analysis. 3. Vitamin D levels are important. Since your levels are low, you should start supplementation. Discuss with your treating physician about this.

Hi doctor,I had a history of thyroid issue before pregnancy. Currently, I have an issue of hair fall and mild body aches.

 Hi dear, thanks for your query. Thyroid problems can lead to many symptoms like hair loss, excessive tiredness, weight gain etc. But it is not always so. You should get your thyroid function tests done again. Also, if these symptoms persist then we need to look out for other causes. You may be having some vitamin deficiency or anemia as well. So better to consult a physician who will examine you properly and treat accordingly.

Hi doctor,I have a generic query. Can we trust the NABL and CAP accreditation laboratories in terms of reliability and accuracy? And what does they mean? And all NABL and CAP labs are of same quality? Please explain in detail.

1) Yes, it is true that NABL/CAP accredited laboratories are reliable and accurate. They have to maintain certain standards for their testing and reporting procedure. These standards and procedures are approved by the regulatory bodies like WHO, FDA etc.2) No, not all NABL/CAP accredited laboratories are of same quality. There are many good and bad ones. So make sure which one you are going to choose before visiting them.3) You can ask your GP or treating physician about any specific lab he/she prefer to send his/her patients.

Hello doctor,How eating habits or certain foods impact sleep? How much should men be stretching at 25, 30, 35, 40, 45? Does the need to be flexible vary by age?

 Hi thanks for contacting Chat Doctor.it depends upon individual. But generally people who take more of protein and less of carbs have better quality of sleep. As proteins are converted into energy in body during night time so they can cause sleeplessness where as carbohydrates will give us good sleep. Avoid coffee and alcohol before bedtime. Take proper sleep schedule and exercise regularly. As it helps in maintaining healthy life style and prevent fatigue. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. I will be happy to answer your questions. Wishing you good health.

Hello doctor,My baby is 10 months old, and he is two months premature. If I feed him with solid food, he does vomiting. Is it not safe for him to feed with solid food?

 Thanks for asking in Chat Doctor forum. I do understand your concern regarding diet of your child. As per my knowledge if his weight is good then there should not be any problem in giving him solids. You can give him mashed potatoes or boiled vegetables as well as fruits like banana, apple or papaya. Please avoid spicy food for now. Also make sure that he is taking enough fluids during feeds. Hope this helps you.

Hello doctor,I am 23, 51 kg. I had unprotected sex a day before I got my period (on the 38th day of cycle). It lasted for four days (normal). Today is the 13th day from when my period started and I am getting bad backache, my breasts hurt (usually happens just before period) and sticky egg white discharge. Am I pregnant or is it ovulation? I had taken a pregnancy test before I got my period because I was late and it was negative. I have mild PCOS. So, my periods are never on time but happens every month. Is it possible to be pregnant after you get your period?

1. You should not worry about pregnancy as period has occurred and the ovulation is unlikely at this time.2. The symptoms you are having could suggest that the hormonal imbalance due to POD may be the reason for your symptom.3. If you feel that these symptoms persist even after few days then you can repeat the urine pregnancy tests after one week if needed.4. In case if there is any doubt in regards to the cause of your symptoms then you can consult a gynecologist for further evaluation.

Hi doctor,Nowadays, I am getting a migraine for every three days alternatively. Before few days, I usually get a migraine once in 20 days. Often, I have a visual problem and aura symptoms. It relieves after taking Zerodol. Please suggest.

 Hi welcome to Chat Doctor forum.  Thanks for calling Chat Doctor. Forum.  Your migraines are common with many people.  The treatment of a headache is very important because it can be associated with other problems like seizures or psychiatric disorders.  You should consult your physician for proper evaluation. Meanwhile, you can take painkillers as per need and relief. An anti-epileptic agent may also be required. Hope this answers your question.

Hello doctor,I am suffering from epididymitis problem. Sometimes I am having pain in testis while having a gastric issue as well. Kindly help me to get rid of this

1. Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com. Forum.2. Yes, it is possible that your Epididymitis can be due to Acute Gastritis or Acidosis.3. You need to take an antibiotic like Ciprofloxacin for 5 days and an anti-inflammatory medicine Tab. Ibuprofen 400 mg twice daily.4. Do not have sex till complete recovery.5. Apply warm compresses over testicles for 10 min before taking bath.6. Check your blood sugar level.7. Get examined by Urologist if symptoms persist. Hope you got your answer. If you want any more clarification / have doubts / have additional questions / have follow-up questions, then please do not hesitate in asking again. I will be happy to answer your questions. Best Wishes,

Hello doctor,I am 32 years old and had an herinated disc and had surgery a few years back, it was a post delayed surgery. Due to the delay in surgery (18 days) I left with a foot drop and right leg weakness. I was bedridden for 4 months. Totally weak. But I gradually developed doing physiotheraphy and with some Ayurvedic treatment. I started waking now with out any help. But my foot drop is still there. But I can lift my toe and ankle little bit from last month. Can I come to my normal life, how long I need to wait to get cured from foot drop?

18 days is too much time for surgery. The best thing would be to get an MRI scan done and see if the nerves have been damaged or not. If they haven't then no problem. If they have then you may require another surgery. In either case you will need physio therapy which should take approximately 6 weeks before you start walking normally again. It all depends upon your recovery rate but it takes at least 6 weeks.

Hello doctor,I was at the dentist yesterday and had a gum cleaning and now today there are 2 bumps in the back of my mouth on top and my gums right there also look red and there more looking like balls per say.

1) The two lumps on the back of your palate could be due to inflammation of the gingival or gums. It is caused by plaque accumulation around the teeth and gums resulting in inflammatory response from body. This is called gingivitis and can be treated with mechanical removal of the plaque/tartar. 2) The redness you see on the gums is due to the same reason. You need to remove the plaque/tartar regularly and maintain good oral hygiene.3) If this does not improve then you may require antibiotics as well. I suggest you visit your dentist for a clinical evaluation and treatment.4) In case if it is an abscess you will feel pain along with swelling over the area, fever, and throbbing pain. So go ahead and get yourself checked by your dentist. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know

Hello doctor,I have a milky like white color on my tongue that is more noticeable in the back my tongue should I be worried? I am a non-drinker and smoker.

1. It may not necessarily be due to any disease or infection. You may be having an allergic reaction to something which is causing it.2. I would suggest getting your blood sugar levels checked as well as doing a hemoglobin A1C test.3. Try brushing your teeth with fluoride toothpaste twice daily and use mouthwash as per instructions for one week. This will help remove plaque, bacteria and prevent further irritation of the area.4. Use antiseptic mouth wash gargles twice daily for one week.5. Avoid spicy foods and carbonated Chat Doctor. 6. Visit a dentist and get evaluated.7. Check out if it is associated with burning sensation while eating hot or cold food.8. Do a self examination of your mouth and tongue to see if there are any sores or ulcers present.9. Take multivit

Hello doctor,I am 29 years old . I am married from the last 1.5 years. My problem is that from the last two weeks I am am not getting proper erection during sex. Erection comes a bit and goes out instantly. It is just happeing from the last two weeks before that I was totally fine. I am taking some herbal medicines. Please suggest me why this happening to me. Right now I cat get any erection sex only a bit if I watch some porn or like that. I am having so much tension because of that. Yes one more thing, I used to take one penis size enlarge oil but very rarely. Might be because of that oil I am having this problem. Please suggest me best possible option to cure this.

Hi, Thanks for asking Chat Doctor. I have gone through your query. This can be due to many reasons. Most common reason is psychological stress. You need to relax and try to control your mind. You should avoid watching pornography and other stuff which will increase your sexual desire. As you are already married, it is better to consult with your wife and discuss about it. There may be no problem in your marriage life. Your wife should also understand the situation and try to help you. If you continue to have such problems then you should see a urologist who will examine physically and treat accordingly. Hope this information helps. Thanks and regards.

Hello doctor,I will be facing major surgery for stage three lung cancer contained in the left lobe. I am extremely allergic to Fentanyl, Propofol, and Versed. Are there any alternatives to these anesthetics? I am currently on Synthroid.

1. There are many choices of medicines used as anesthetic agents.2. But they have their own side effects, so it is better that you discuss with your anesthesia team about other possible options.3. As far as synthroid is concerned, it has no relation with anesthesia or surgical procedure.4. So, do not worry about synthroid.5. You may discuss with your doctor if you want to continue taking this medicine. Hope I could help nourishing you good health

Hello doctor,I have rheumatoid arthritis. There is a long waiting list to see a rheumatologist in my place. I am thinking of seeing a private doctor but I have limited funds. How often would I need to see a rheumatologist? I cannot afford it every week or maybe every few months. How often do you think I need a doctor visit? I am hoping to be prescribed a DMARD like Methotrexate. Then when my slot comes up with the NHS I will go there.I take Naproxen which is not enough and I had a cortisone injection in my knee a couple of months ago. The swelling did not go down completely but I walked better. It has worn off now, and I have pain in more joints and a feeling of lumps under my feet. I am on a special diet and my CRP, ESR and high rheumatoid factor have gone down by half. But lately, I feel unwell. I would like to know the frequency of visits needed.

 Hi, thank you for providing the brief history of you. As you mentioned that your RA is well controlled as per the inflammation markers, and you have been taking naproxen for some time. You can continue Naproxen, however, if you want to try out other medicines then you should consult an orthopedic surgeon. He/she will advise you about the Chat Doctor.  In case, you are having any issues regarding the medications, you can revert back to us. I hope this information helps you. Do rate this advice, and also write a review to help other patients. Wish you all the best. Thank you

Hello doctor,Due to the use of Skinlite, I have sunburn on my face and now it looks like the dark spot. But I am using Kojivit gel for a dark spot. Is Kojivit gel good for the dark spot?

 Hi, Thanks for posting your query. Sunburn can be treated by application of mild steroid cream like HY Chat Doctor.  This helps in reducing redness and swelling. You can also apply calamine lotion or cool compresses over the affected areas. Do not expose yourself to sunlight until the healing is complete. Kojic acid is a lightening agent which can help in lightening pigmented spots, but it will take time to show result. It should not be used alone as it may cause skin irritation. Hope this information was helpful.

Hello doctor,My son has a persistent headache since last 15 days. It started with headache. Consulted various neurologist. Got MRI and CT done, all clear. He gave various medicines, even Noxdorm 250, but no response.

 Hi, I can understand your concern for your sons condition. The most common cause of such headaches is tension-type headaches which may be due to stress or anxiety. You may try to consult a psychiatrist who will be able to guide you in detail about the causes and treatment options. In the meantime some lifestyle changes like regular sleeping habits, avoidance of stressful situations, having healthy diet etc. would help him. Hope this information helps.

Hello doctor,My wife and I had some argument about my past. I had lied to her about the number of sex partners I had. That hurts her because she explained that her perception of me was built on the fact that she knew that I only had a few sex partners.We have been discussing this for months, but now after having these discussions and arguments, I realize that when we are to have sex, I get anxious. I will get an erection, but when its time to enter, it falls. I want to know, how to get my mind to a place of not over thinking so that I am not distracted. Kindly help.

1) First, your anxiety is the result of guilt and worry. When you lie, you feel guilty and worry about getting caught in the act. This causes anxiety which then leads to performance anxiety during sexual encounters.2) Second, anxiety can be reduced by relaxation techniques such as deep breathing exercises.3) Third, if you do not have any physical problems with achieving or maintaining an erection, then it may be related to psychological factors. You need to go see a therapist who specializes in treating men with sexual dysfunction.4) Fourth, if you do have physical issues with achieving or maintaining an erection, then you should consult a urologist for further evaluation.5) Lastly, you should also consider couples counseling which can help both of you to understand each other better and improve communication in your relationship.

Hi doctor,I feel a strange glitch in my vision. It is quite big and takes up a large portion of my central vision. It is neither a shadow nor a flash, it looks like a greasy fingerprint smudge in my vision which disappears quickly. It happens when I blink, but mostly occurs when my eyes move quickly. I have had it for the past few days and I do not know if it is anything to be concerned about. Please help.

1) I would suggest that you get your vision checked by an eye specialist as this does sound like some kind of problem with your vision. 2) There are many causes of problems with vision, including cataracts, glaucoma, retinal issues (such as macular degeneration), optic nerve issues, etc. So it is important to get your eyes examined to determine what the cause is so that you can receive proper treatment.

Hello doctor,My tooth hurts anytime I eat or drink. It feels hot. I feel hot, it is sharp pain that does not go away. My gums are swollen.

 Hi, thanks for sharing your concern with us. The symptoms of toothache can be due to decayed tooth, gum infection, abscess formation, periodontal problems etc. You may need to visit a dentist and get an x-ray done to rule out the cause of toothache. You may need root canal treatment if there is pulp inflammation or extraction of tooth if tooth is damaged beyond repair. I hope this information helps you. Take care!

Hello doctor,I have had permanent cramps and a constant ache in both buttocks. I have pain down the back of the legs in the calf and when I walk it feels like it is about to cramp and I get pain in front of the thigh. I have a constant aching feel. When I press my skin on both thighs it feels sore. I had it for over two months. I have pain on both sides of my thighs and legs regardless of if I am sitting or resting.I got admitted to the hospital for two weeks and they did an MRI scan on my spine and found nothing. They did a lumbar puncture and found nothing. They also did a nerve examination and nothing was found. I am currently on Gabapentin, Codeine, and Paracetamol.

1) The pain and tightness in your buttocks, thighs, and legs can be due to compression of the sciatic nerve at its origin from L4-L5 vertebrae. This could explain why you have pain radiating down the back of the leg.2) There is no specific treatment for this condition as such. You need physical therapy with ultrasound and TENS therapy to improve the symptoms.3) In addition, you may also try using a soft cervical collar and performing gentle neck exercises.4) Please consult an orthopedic surgeon who will examine you and give further details regarding the treatment.

Hello doctor,I have small boils (red and white) on the head of my penis and also inside the skin and itching also. I regularly clean with warm water and sometimes, put some vaseline gel but nowadays, it increases very much. I think it is a fungal infection. Please suggest a good medicine and precautions to be taken to clear this infection. ASAP. This happened for the first time.

1. It could be due to fungus or bacterial infection.2. For fungal infection you can apply clotrimazole cream over it.3. For bacterial infection you can apply mupirocin ointment over it.4. Take an antibiotic like tab augmenting 625 mg twice daily.5. Take tab levocetrizine once at nighttime. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor, I have observed a white smegma on my penis head. There were irritation and red bumps on it before, but I oiled it so now I do not have any pain or irritation. But in the morning the white smegma is still there and my foreskin is hard and rough. What should I do? Please help.

100% welcome to Chat Doctor forum. I am sorry about your problem. You need to take care of this problem as soon as possible because it may lead to serious complications. Smegma is a natural lubricant that keeps the area around the glans of the penis moist and protected from friction and injury. It is produced by the sebaceous glands present in the skin of the penis. The normal color of smegma varies depending upon the amount of exposure to air. It can range from light yellowish-brown to black. It is common for people to notice more smegma when they are sexually aroused. This is due to increased secretion of sebum from the sebaceous glands. White smegma means that there is something wrong with your body, either it is an allergy or some other disease. I suggest you go to your physician for examination and proper treatment.

Hello doctor,My 2-year-old put my mascara wand in his mouth. His teeth and all around his mouth were black. I used a toothbrush and water to get all the black out. What else should I do? I am not sure how much he swallowed. Can it harm him?

1) Nothing to worry. It will be alright.2) You have already done whatever is necessary.3) If there was any left over in his mouth, it will come off after some time.4) Do not panic.5) Just make him brush his teeth every day for at least two minutes with the small head of the toothbrush.6) If still there is anything remaining then consult your dentist.7) Continue doing this for next few days.8) Hopefully everything will be fine.

Hello doctor,Last night and today I have been experiencing a sharp pain just left of the sternum which is not deep, seemingly on top of the rib where it joins the sternum. It lasts a second or two but may repeat several times before stopping in five minutes or so. I went out in the garden today to dig a bit and wearing my HR monitor (I have got health anxiety, anxiety disorder as well as depression). As I was digging, the pain started hurting with each heartbeat. I looked at my monitor and it read 138 bpm. I am 70 years old and have been on medication (Benzodiazepines) for over 50 years for panic attacks and general anxiety. Two years ago I felt similar pain but not to this extent. I went to ER but nothing was found (the doctor said it could be costochondritis but definitely not my heart). I get bloodwork quarterly and everything was fine except cholesterol which was 235. I tried a statin but the muscle pain was too great. In my EKG I have RBBB or LAFB which 14 years back after a stress test I was told that I was probably born with it. I had gone to see the cardiologist then because of getting skipped beats and GERD he told me to ignore them. Last time I had an EKG was in the ER for six months when I had a weird pain in back and side. They checked out heart anyway and said it was fine. Probably just a colicky gallbladder. I have had stones for more than 20 years and had no surgery. So I hesitate to go to the ER again. My local doctor just closed. HR is still 88 while lying down right now. Usually, my resting heart rate is under 67. Currently, I am on Lorazepam 2 mg, Prevacid 15 mg and baby Aspirin.

1) The pain you described is most likely due to acid reflux disease. You can try PPI medications like omeprazole 20 mg once daily or pantoprazole 40 mg twice daily. This should help control your symptoms. 2) Your current medications are appropriate for your conditions. But you should discuss with your doctors about changing the frequency of aspirin. It is recommended to take only once per day. 3) Your HR is slightly elevated but seems to be stable without any arrhythmia. You should not worry about it. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hi doctor,I am in my late 6th month pregnancy. Recently I went for a scan named targeted imaging for fetal anomalies (TIFFA). All the reports were normal except hypoplastic nasal bone and higher normal values of amniotic fluid. I am approaching you for second consultation now. My questions are, what if we go for genetic amniocentesis and results were positive for Down\s syndrome? Can I terminate the pregnancy in my 28th week of pregnancy? How much safe it is to go for amniocentesis test? Is there any alternate test to get better results? I decided not to have a baby who is mentally retarded. Please suggest me your valuable advice.

1. It is very important that you understand why you need to terminate the pregnancy. You should know that termination of pregnancy at this stage will result in preterm labor which can be associated with multiple complications for both mother and baby.2. The accuracy of amniocentesis is about 95% and the risk of miscarriage after amniocentesis is less than 1%.3. There is no other test available currently to diagnose chromosomal abnormalities like downs syn Chat Doctor.

Hello doctor,My mother is 75 years old. She is suffering from head spinning and heaviness problem since the last six months. Her BP, sugar, thyroid and other blood test reports are normal. After getting a suggestion from a doctor (Medicine) she had gone on an MRI test. The MRI test (non-contrast) of brain report was given with a doubt of evidence of blooming in GRE in the left parietal lobe and right basifrontal lobe without evidence of perilesional edema and advised for further evaluation with contrast to rule out calcified granulomas and other etiologies. Also, MRI report findings include:Small vessel white matter ischemic changes.Chronic lacunar infarct in the right external capsule.Mild cerebral atrophic changes.The Doctor of medicine gave medicines for the treatment of vertigo and nerve but suggested to show immediately to a neurologist. My mother does not know the brain problem and she refuses to go to a doctor for further checking due to her fear. So, I need your help.

1. Firstly, you have not mentioned whether the patient has any history of trauma or any other symptoms like dizziness, giddiness etc., which may be related to this condition.2. Secondly, the MRI report suggests that there is some kind of small stroke in the brain, though it is mild.3. Since you have not mentioned how many times the patient has experienced this, we cannot comment much on it. But in my opinion, if there is no history of previous stroke and the patient is otherwise healthy, then it can be treated conservatively.4. You should consult a physician who can examine her and give the necessary medications.5. If the patient has severe symptoms like seizures, loss of consciousness, then she needs to be hospitalized and evaluated properly.6. Please get back to us with more details about the patient so that we can help you better.

Hi doctor,I have a small white scar on the lower lip for seven months. It was not white at first. But now it just stays there and does not show any change.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. I am sorry to hear that you have this white scar on your lower lip. The most common cause of white patches on skin is vitiligo. Other causes could be leukoderma, psoriasis, lichen planus or other autoimmune conditions. You need to consult a dermatologist for diagnosis and treatment. I hope you find my advice helpful. Thank you for posting your query. Please feel free to ask if you require further information.

Hi doctor,I am struggling to get up early in the morning. I sleep for eight hours every day. I press the snooze button many times, but still, I cannot wake up early. I became irregular to the work which became a barrier to my career. Currently, I am taking tablet Fluvoxin 100 mg in the afternoon for OCD and depression, tablet Oxetol 450 mg in the evening for gelastic seizure, tablet Quetiapine 100 mg at night for delusions.

1) You have not mentioned your age, gender or marital status; so it is difficult to give an opinion without this information.2) The medications that you are taking may be contributing to your difficulty in getting up early in the morning.3) It would help if you could mention the time at which you go to bed.4) Are you able to sleep well? Do you experience frequent awakenings during the night?5) Do you have any other co-existing physical illnesses such as diabetes or hypertension?6) What type of job do you do? Is it demanding in terms of working hours?7) Do you feel tired throughout the day?8) Have you tried any alternative therapies such as yoga or meditation?9) Are there any stressors in your life at present (family issues, financial worries etc.)?

Hello doctor,I had unprotected sex on 1st of last month and missed my period on 20th. I did a urine pregnancy test on 3rd of this month, it came negative and then I took Regestrone 10 mg for five days one tablet each day from 3rd to 7th. Then on 8th, I did a bhCG which came negative and today I got a slight spotting and when wiping a little brownish kinda discharge came. Am I pregnant?

1) Yes, you can take an emergency pill called as Plan B within 5 days after unprotected intercourse. It is 95% effective in preventing pregnancy if taken within 72 hours of unprotected intercourse.2) The fact that your urine pregnancy test was negative means that you were not pregnant at all. Your bleeding could be due to hormonal imbalance or some other cause. Please consult your gynecologist for further evaluation.

Hello doctor,I was running, and I fell into a pit. My ankle got twisted, and I could feel some cracking sound. I had a swollen ankle immediately. I have been icing for 2 days and now the swelling has reduced. I am unable to walk. I have pain when I try to move or walk. I had a fracture fibula of the same ankle 5 years back. Please help.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you have injured your ankle in the accident, it is possible that there may be injury to the ligaments also, which will lead to pain and difficulty in walking. Also, since you had fractured the same bone earlier, possibility of another fracture need not be ruled out. You should get x-ray done as soon as possible. If required, you can go for CT scan also to rule out any internal damage. Till then, you can take rest and apply ice packs over the affected area.

Hello doctor,The semen analysis report is in my hand, but I cannot understand it.Liquefaction time- 30 minutes.Duration of abstinence- four days.Appearance- creamy white.Volume 4.0 ml.Ph 8Fructose- Present.Motility- 100.Spermatozoa- rapid 20%, slow 10%, non-progressive motility 5%, immotile 83%.Vitality count- 15 million.Morphology- normal 20%, abnormal 80%.

 HelloThanks for query. Your semen examination reports shows that your sperms are normal and good. The percentage of motility is slightly low. It can be improved by taking vitamin supplements like C, E, Zinc etc. Take healthy diet and avoid stress. Avoid smoking if you have habit. You should consult qualified Infertility specialist for further evaluation and treatment. Hope this will help you.

Hello doctor,I was seen in the ER for a possible kidney stone. I did have blood in my urine. No stone was found. The only thing noted on my CT scan reads \x80\x9ccircumferential urinary bladder wall thickening versus under distension\x80\x9d. What does this mean? Is this a sign of bladder cancer? What follow-up is needed?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. You had a CT Scan and it showed circumferential thickening of the walls of your bladder. It could be due to inflammation or any other pathology like malignancy etc. It will depend upon the clinical correlation as well as the reports. So consult your physician with these reports and get evaluated. In case if there is no relief then biopsy of that area may be done. This will help us to know what is the cause. I hope this information helps you. Take care

Hello doctor,I am a 50-year-old male. I had genital warts five years ago, had them removed via cauterization and received three injections of HPV vaccine Gardasil. The doctor said the vaccine would cure the virus, but after a year, warts reappeared and until now they are still in my scrotum, and they are itchy but not painful. My question is that can I have sex with my partner given my current condition? Have I got cured by HPV vaccine?

1st thing to be clear that HPV vaccines do not cure the viral infection. It protects against infection only if taken before exposure. So your wart must be due to some other cause like local trauma or any other skin disorder. You should consult dermatologist for proper examination and treatment. Regarding your sexual life, there is no restriction as per present clinical scenario. But if you get any new lesion then you need to take the vaccine again.

Hello doctor,I am a male, 23 years old, weight is 65 kg, height is 5\9". My penis is not getting hard for sex. The penis is getting erect but not getting hard enough. Due to this, I am not able to put my penis inside the vagina. Also, I ejaculate within 10 to 15 seconds (3 to 4 stock). And now I am avoiding sex because of this problem and getting less interest day by day. I do smoke regularly and drink occasionally also. I used to watch porn in excess and masturbate regularly. Please help me out. I am very much tensed about my future sex life. Please consult me what to do I want to get rid of this major issue. I cannot tell this issue to my family or friends also. I do not have enough money to consult a doctor privately. Please look into the matter.

1. You need to stop smoking and alcohol. As both these activities will affect your health adversely.2. Masturbation should be done in moderation, once or twice at maximum per week. If you masturbate more frequently than that then it may lead to premature ejaculation as well as other sexual problems. 3. Pornography can cause sexual dysfunction if watched in excess. So try to limit its consumption. 4. Try to be in a relationship with someone who loves you. This will boost up your confidence and self-esteem.

Hello doctor,One week ago, I had intercourse on my third day of the period and after approximately 30 hours of that, I have taken an i-pill. From the next day of taking the pill, I had severe back pain and lower abdomen pain which continues for one week. And after one week, I started bleeding and right now do not know why I am still bleeding? Is it my period that came again?

1. I-pill can be used as emergency contraception if taken within 72 hrs (3 days) of unprotected sexual intercourse.2. It is very unlikely to cause such side effects.3. Bleeding usually occurs during the first few weeks of taking the pill due to change in hormone levels in the body.4. I suggest you consult your gynecologist for further evaluation and management. Hope this helps.

Hello doctor,I am seeking experts to comment on low-carb diets.What is the complete macronutrient breakdown for a typical low-carb diet? How much fat should you eat on a low-carb diet? How much protein should you eat on a low-carb diet?We are looking for suggestions on vegan foods for energy. Name the foods you are recommending and set description as to why you are suggesting this food.

 Hi, Thanks for posting your query. I have gone through your question and understand your concerns. I would like to tell you that, it depends upon the requirement of the individual and their body type. Low carb diet can be beneficial in weight loss if done under supervision of a physician. But it has its own side effects also. So do consult your doctor before starting any kind of diet. Hope you find this information useful. Wish you good health. Regards

Hello doctor, I think I am bipolar. Just a couple of weeks ago, I felt and was told by my friends that I was more energetic and crazy than usual. Now, I feel like there is no hope, and nobody really cares. But there is also that little bit of me that is telling me that I am faking this and that all I want is attention. I just want to know what the heck is up with my head.

 Hi, Dear, thanks for your query to Chat Doctor. I studied it in depth and I understood your concerns. Your symptoms seem to be related to depressive episode of bipolar disorder. You should consult psychiatrist and discuss it. Treatment with anti-depressants and other mood stabilizers may help you. I would advise you to undergo counseling sessions too. Hope this would help you to solve your query. Welcome for any further query in this regard Will appreciate writing your feedback review comments, to help the needy patients like you at Chat Doctor. Click on "Write Review" button. Click on "RATE THIS DOCTOR" Anchor, if satisfied. Click on EXIT ANCHOR to close and conclude this session. Click on COMMENT to ask a direct query to me.Click HERE TO GET YOUR MEDICAL DIAGNOSES AND TREATMENT PLAN

Hi doctor,I am 29 years of age. I had unprotected sex and I am having sex with the same partner for more than a year and a half. Suddenly, I got itching sensation and found that I have got itchy bumps on my penis which started clustering together. Later, it healed automatically. I also found when I run or walk a long distance and feel sweaty, I feel the sensation and I get the bumps again. These bumps are small and shiny at the tip and often get clustered and gets healed. It does not give me a problem but I really feel demoralized and unfit. I do not have these problems regularly. Also for a long time, I have itchy inner thighs because of which my skin turned blackish white and is still itchy. I am not sure whether I am infected. Please suggest me the solution to get diagnosed. I can provide pictures if required.

1) I don't think this is an STD infection as you didn't mention any symptoms like fever, pain etc.2) You have mentioned that you were having frequent episodes of itching and rashes.3) You should consult your dermatologist and get yourself examined.4) A detailed history about the duration of outbreaks, frequency, triggers, associated symptoms will help the dermatologist to diagnose the condition.5) The treatment will depend upon the cause of the rash.6) Take plenty of water, avoid spicy foods, take antihistamines like cetirizine for relief from itching.7) Hope this helps.

Hello doctor,There is slight bleeding after anal sex. I had a drop-by-drop bleeding the next morning after passing stool.

1) It could be due to straining during defecation.2) It could be due to hemorrhoids3) It could be due to fissure in Anus4) It could be due to fistula in anus5) It could be due to diverticulitis6) It could also be due to anal cancer7) It could be due to polyps of rectum8) It could be due to inflammatory bowel disease9) It could be due to some other causes like prolapsed internal hemorrhoid etc.10) There might be some underlying problem with your general health and it may not have anything to do with anal sex. However, if there is any pain or discomfort associated with this, then it should be investigated further.

Hello doctor,My 5 year old daughter has stomach aches around the navel area that happens from time to time. It lasts a few minutes each time and goes away. Abdominal X-ray and ultrasound were done and has not found any abnormalities or umbilical hernia. Stomach pain starts while eating or drinking and also at random times. Other symptoms including the passing of stools about four to five times a day, including while having a meal.A most recent development within the last week has had several accidents and says she did not feel it coming. This is not normal for her. No other emotional distress could be a reason.

1) I would like to know more about the child and what her lifestyle is. I mean does she have access to food all the time? Does she eat in between meals? 2) Secondly, how much water does she consume per day?3) Is there an increase in her urination frequency as well?4) How many hours does she sleep?5) Are there any other symptoms such as fever, vomiting, diarrhea etc.?6) Also, do you find that she has any difficulty in walking due to weakness?7) If your answers to these questions show that she is very active, then we can rule out any intestinal disorders. But if the answers suggest otherwise then I would advise you to take her to a pediatrician who will examine her thoroughly and give her medicines accordingly. Hope this helps!

Hi doctor,I am 24 years old. I got married 1 month back. I am bleeding after each sex. It happened around four to five times. Also, I get some pain and this is ignorable. Previously, I suffered with period problem, facial hair and PCOS. Please help.

 Hi, The symptoms you have mentioned are suggestive of hormonal imbalance which is related to your previous history of POD. Hence, you need to consult gynecologist for proper diagnosis and treatment. You may require hormone replacement therapy in form of tablets or Chat Doctor.  Your condition will improve but it requires more detail information regarding your menstrual pattern, age at first period, duration of periods etc. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,My uncle is 68 years old. He got a myocardial infarction 23 years back, and another one before 13 years, he had four bypasses that year. In the same year, he was diagnosed with NYHA 2; he also had diastolic dysfunction, aortic sclerosis and akinesia in LV.Now he has shortness of breath, swelling in the abdomen and feet, wheezing, and coughing.Is he now in stage D? And what is his life expectancy after 13 years of diagnosis of HF?

 Hi there, I have gone through your question and understand your concerns. The current status of your uncle is not clear from the information provided. However, considering all the facts, it seems like he is in end stage heart failure. His prognosis will depend upon many factors such as presence of other co-morbidities, congestive symptoms etc. Life expectancy can be predicted only if details regarding these parameters are available. I hope this helps.

Hi doctor, After shaving my face six days ago, I saw a big red bump on the right side of my nose above the mustache. At first, I thought it might be a pimple. Last week, I felt something wrong on my throat and visited a doctor. Doctor said lymph node inflammation and prescribed me Penicillin. Doctor did not ask me anything about that red bump in my mustache area at that time. I have been suffering from mild fever as well after my lymph inflammation. Right now I am worried again since the red bump on my mustache becomes large, and from two or three openings drains watery liquid when I tried to squeeze it. It is really painful and irritates a lot. I am worried about HSV 1 since it is near my mouth. I am having mild fever and lymph infection. I am not in sexual contact for the last seven years. What is your suggestion? What might cause this problem?

 Hi thanks for asking question. In my opinion it seems like infected hair follicle. As there is no history of any trauma or insect bite and other skin conditions, so it can be infective lesion. For further information if you are taking antibiotics then complete course. Also take anti-inflammatory Chat Doctor.. This will help in reducing swelling and pain. If still doesn't respond to treatment then consult dermatologist. He may suggest some more investigations. Take care

Hello doctor,I recently tested positive for HIV and had a viral load test which was 160k and CD4 count of 145. My issue now is with how I could have contracted the virus. I have had three sexual partners and there was always protection. Two tested negatives after I informed them about my results and the last and most recent is insisting he is not ready and it was protected all the way. Although we did have anal at times and I cannot be 100 % sure that the condom was there. I have also had a parasitic infection which affects my scalp for a couple of years. Is it possible for something to mimic HIV in tests? I have been to the dentist thrice in all my life for an extraction and checkups. I also had an appendicectomy 13 years back. I have had occasional IV therapy and a few injections. I have never shown any symptoms. I am also anemic.

 Hi dear, HIV can be transmitted through unprotected sex, needle sharing, blood transfusion or accidental prick by infected needles. It can also be transmitted from mother to child during pregnancy and breastfeeding. The possibility of transmission via dental procedure is very less as per the data available. You should know that the immune system is damaged by the virus only when it reaches the lymph nodes where the cells are destroyed. So if your viral load is high then you might get infected, so I will advise you to start treatment early to prevent further damage to the body. Thanks

Hi doctor,I am a 26 year old female, and I developed foot drop five weeks ago, the foot was numb, and I could not dorsiflex it. But, now I can dorsiflex, and the steppage gait has disappeared unless I walk long distances. I have more power in the foot now, but it is still a lot weaker than the other one, I cannot walk on my heels yet. However, I have been extremely anxious about this foot drop, and a couple of weeks ago I started to twitch, first in the legs and then all over my body, I can see the twitches. When I am talking with someone and thinking about something else, the twitches go away and come back when I think about it. I do feel weak in my body, especially in the legs. Can it be due to the anxiety? I am going to a neurologist, but there is a three months waiting period, and I am scared. I do not think we have had any ALS in my family. Please help me ease my mind.

 Hi, Thanks for writing in. You need to get an MRI scan done to assess the status of your nerves and muscles. The twitching may be related to anxiety or any kind of stress. It is also important to exclude multiple sclerosis which causes weakness of limbs. I would suggest you to consult a neurophysician for further evaluation.

Hello doctor,I am 33 years old and weighs about 86 kg. My whole body hurts. I got pain all over the body, pain in legs and hands. Pain is persistent all the time mostly in the lower feet and hand. I am having pain for the past three months. I just had an appointment with my doctor. He ordered some blood work and told me everything is fine. And he told me to see the rheumatologist once for my peace of mind.I have attached my report. Do you see anything abnormal in my blood report? What is the cause of my body pain? Is anything wrong with my body? Do I have any underlying conditions such as leukemia, lymphoma, or any other cancer? Do I have any liver disease or thyroid disease that can lead me to pain? Before three months I did a blood test and my rheumatoid factor was 8.1 iu/ml and now it is 11 iu/ml. Why it is going up with a short duration of time? What do I need to do?I am eating healthy and getting good sleep but I am not losing weight. My vitamin D level is 40ng/ml and I am taking vitamin B12. I am taking vitamin D for almost one year. I m taking 4000 IU for five days a week. Please explain in detail the treatment plan.

 Hi there. Thanks for your question at Chat Doctor. I understand your concern regarding these symptoms. Firstly, let me tell you that what you have mentioned here is not sufficient information to make a diagnosis. The symptoms of yours are suggestive of a possible inflammation process in the body. But, without knowing the clinical history and physical examination, it is difficult to come to a conclusion. You must get yourself assessed by a physician who would examine you and then come to a conclusion after doing investigations like complete blood count, ESR, USG etc. In case if you have a positive family history of autoimmune diseases, then this could be a possibility. There are various causes of body pains. The most common causes are muscle spasms, joint pains, gastric problems, backache, anxiety etc. But, before coming to a conclusion, I would suggest you to consult a physician who will look

Hi doctor,I am worried about ALS. I have had a twitch in my left hypothenar muscle intermittently for three weeks or so. Perhaps a few twitches per hour followed by hours of no twitching. I also have twitches in other parts of my body quite regularly though this one is focal and the others are diffuse. I have not dropped anything. Doing self-tests, my left pinky seems a bit weaker. Though I think I have atrophy in the hypothenar, I have had three general practice doctors tell me it is just asymmetrical with my dominant right hand. The doctors have also performed basic finger strength tests (spread fingers and resist ) and they say they are normal. Reflexes are normal. No tripping, dropping, slurring, etc. Should I be worried about this given the above scenario and that doctors have told me no atrophy and no weakness? Thank you.

 Hi there, thanks for writing to Chat Doctor. I understand your concern. You need to consult your neurologist who will examine you and order an EMG/NCV as well as blood workup to rule out any possible causes of your symptoms. It may be related to vitamin B12 deficiency or any metabolic problem. Also, if you are taking any medication then you might want to check with your doctor if these may cause any type of side effects which could lead to such symptoms. In any case, you should not worry too much, but it is best to get checked up. Hope this helps!

Hello doctor,I am 53 years old, and have quit smoking 19 years ago. I still have a chronic cough. Each specialist tells me something different. The pulmonologist told me it was asthma, and another doctor said it was acid reflux disease. Now they are telling me it is COPD. I do not have diminished lung capacity or problem in breathing, no wheezing, out of breath when I run but, I am overweight and out of shape. What do you think?

 Hi, dairy have gone through your question. I can understand your concern. You may have COPD. Yes, it causes cough. But it does not cause cough to be present all the time as you have. It depends upon degree of obstructive lesion. So consult pulmonologist and get done clinical examination and PFT (pulmonary function test). PFT will tell you about severity of the disease. Then you should take treatment accordingly. Hope I have answered your question, if you have doubt then I will be happy to answer. Thanks for using Chat Doctor. Wish you a very good health.

Hi doctor,I had nonpenetrative sex with my partner. He did not ejaculate, but a kind of sticky lube came from his penis which he wiped with his hand and then rubbed his hand in the bedsheet. After that, he used his hand in my private areas. I am afraid that I might get pregnant. Please help.

1. You can use emergency contraceptive pills if you have sex within 72 hours of your periods.2. Your partner should also be tested for STDs as well.3. Do not worry about pregnancy at this time as there is no chance of it.4. Avoid sexual contact until you both have been examined by a doctor and given clearance.5. Use condom during sex. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. Wishing you good health.

Hi doctor,I have peeling lips for past one year. It started over last winter when I applied moisturizer. Even after I stopped applying the moisturizer it is peeling still. I went to a doctor and he gave me a vitamin tablet. But, I did not get any cure with that. Then I visited a dermatologist and he gave me Tacrolimus ointment 0.1% and no improvement with that too. Now he has given me the same ointment along with tablets Medrol, Biotin and Celin. Now I feel it has progressed to my upper lip also. Could you please tell me how to cure this? I am so desperate for this to be over. I am under lot of stress because of this. By the way the time when it started, I was under stress. I have searched in internet and I found that many people have been having this problem for many years. Some cured with anxiety medication and some by leaving alone. What shall I do for this?

 Hi, thanks for writing your query. I understand your concern regarding the condition of peeling of lips. The treatment depends upon the cause of the condition. There are few conditions which could lead to such symptoms. They include-contact dermatitis (allergic reaction), eczema, lichen planus or other autoimmune conditions like pemphigoid etc. The most common cause of peeling lips is trauma/ friction. It can occur due to excessive use of lip balms, lipsticks, chewing gums etc. The other possible causes are Chat Doctor.  Hope this helps. Please write back if you require any additional information.

Hello doctor,I am a 21-year-old female. I have preauricular pits, that have drained smelly discharge ever since I was born. I have them in both ears. The right does not drain often. The left drains every day more than once a day. The left has become really swollen and painful recently. I am not sure of what to do because I now understand that the discharge means it is infected and it is hard for the surgery, if infected. Plus they have been infected for so long. I have also read that after surgery, it could reoccur.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your problem, it seems to be an ear infection with accumulation of pus, which needs to be treated by antibiotics. As you mention that the left ear is painful, I would suggest you to consult a surgeon or ENT specialist. You can take an appointment with him/her, and he may treat it with an incision and curettage. It will remove the excess pus from the cavity and will help to reduce the pain. Hope this information helps you. Thank you.

Hello doctor,I was on a course of Deviry 10 mg for 5 days as I missed my period last month but I am not pregnant. How many days does it take to get my period now?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As your Deviated 10 mg is an oral contraceptive pill that can prevent ovulation and therefore conception, so if you miss your periods by a day or two, it cannot be due to Deviated 10 mg. So I would advise you to consult a gynecologist and undergo some tests like ultrasound scan of abdomen, blood tests for prolactin levels, thyroid profile, urine test for sugar, etc., and accordingly he will treat you. Hope this helps.

Hi doctor,I had a cavity in the tooth. The X-rays show it was small but when the dentist drilled the nerve got exposed and is telling me I need a root canal along with crown. He has put a temporary filling for now. How do I know if I need a root canal for sure?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. I understand your concern. You have to get done an x-ray of the tooth after removal of the temporary filling. Then only we can judge whether there is any infection or not. If there is no infection then you don't need to go for Root Canal Treatment. In case there is some infection then you should go for Root Canal treatment. It will be better if you consult another Dentist for opinion. Hope this helps. Take care.

Hello doctor,My mother was diagnosed with breast cancer early this year. She underwent MRM surgery and now undergoing chemotherapy. Her age is 57, and the doctor advised for eight cycles of chemotherapy. Now she completed five cycles, and now the doctor had advised 17 more injections for hormone blocking. We find 17 more injections are too much and will be highly stressful for my mother. Could you please suggest an alternative treatment.I have attached a few essential reports for your reference. Please let me know if you need any more details.

17 injections of any medicine are not easy to take by anyone but especially by a person who has already gone through a lot. The only alternative that I can think of is to use other medicines like tamoxifen or Arimidex (anastrozole) instead of leuprolide acetate. These medications are also hormonal blockers and work similarly so they may be substituted for each other. However, the decision should be taken after consultation with her doctor because he knows best what is right for his patients.

Hello doctor,If both the testes experience a reduction in blood supply (and thus oxygen and hormones), in the long run will it increase the risk of more spontaneous mutation present in sperms as lesser blood supply will affect the DNA replication and repairing ability of spermatogonial cells?

 Hi, Thanks for writing to Chat Doctor. Yes, reduced blood supply to the testicles can lead to increased chance of genetic abnormalities in sperms. As the blood supply is reduced, there is less oxygen and nutrients available to the testicles, which leads to decrease in the number of sperm producing cells (spermatogonia) in the testis. These cells divide into other types of cells which give rise to germ cells like spermatocytes and spermatids. Increase in number of these cells leads to chromosomal abnormality in sperms, which may be transmitted to offspring leading to genetic disorders. Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hi doctor,My chief complaint is severe lower back pain and pain in upper thighs. My medical history is as follows. Carcinoma of the breast three years back, followed by surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy. I am on Tamoxifen for past 3 years, and now I am taking Arimidex. I have been suffering from osteoporosis for over 7 years. Before six years, I had severe osteopenia with maximum bone loss of 21% on L3 and spine, ribs, trunk, and arms with more on the left side.I had undergone the following investigations. Before three years, I had FNAC which showed invasive ductal carcinoma, right breast ER+, PR+, Hercep score "0." Last month, I had an x-ray and MRI, which showed focal altered marrow intensity lesions seen in B/L pelvic bone, sacrum, and left upper femoral shaft consistent with metastasis. I also had a PET scan which showed metabolically active ill-defined lytic destructive lesions in post cortex shaft of left femur, right inferior pubic ramus, B/L iliac bones, sacrum, D5, 7, 11 and L1, 4, sternum, right 3, 5, 7 post ribs with mid-right paravertebral soft tissue lesion at D7 level likely metastasis.

1) Osteoporosis is due to low calcium intake and lack of physical activity. You should take calcium supplements and do regular exercise.2) The treatment depends upon the type of cancer. For example, if it is breast cancer then you will need hormonal therapy (aromatase inhibitors).3) The other possible cause could be due to radiation therapy. Radiation induced fibrosis can occur after radiation therapy for many types of cancer including breast, prostate, thyroid, lung and skin cancer. It causes chronic pain and stiffness in the joints and muscles. In your case, the symptoms may be due to this. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,Kindly provide me some information about the keto diet.1. Is it safe? Or unsafe?2. Is it a good way to lose weight? Or a terrible way to lose weight?

3. Does it have any side effects?4. Are there any long term health risks associated with this type of diet?5. Should I consult my doctor before starting it?6. How does it compare to other types of diets like low fat, high protein or Mediterranean diet?7. What is the recommended duration for following this diet?8. Can I eat fruits while doing this diet?9. Can I do intermittent fasting along with this diet?10. Are there any specific foods that I should avoid while on the diet? Thank you in advance.

Hello doctor,I would like to get a third opinion in regard to categorizing which uterine abnormality I possess. The initial doctor said it is arcuate. My current doctor thinks it is bicornuate but I am going to do a 3D ultrasound in the middle of my next cycle to get a better idea. I have MRI and hysteroscopy photos to provide. I have had two missed miscarriages, the last one hemorrhaged two days before going septic and sent me to the ER for five days. I have also been diagnosed with a placental site nodule on my right side where both pregnancies have been. Could my problem be surgically corrected?Currently, we are going through genetic, blood clotting disorder, and menstrual cycle/hormone monitoring. Genetic counselor said low risk for any genetic causes but is still waiting to complete the blood tests which should be done in four weeks, same for the blood clotting tests.

1) The arcuate uterus has an elliptical shape instead of being a circle. It appears as if a part of the uterus is missing, when viewed from above. 2) Bicornuate uterus is a congenital malformation of the uterus that occurs in about 4% of women. It looks like there is a cleft or split in the uterus into two parts. This can cause problems with implantation and early pregnancy loss. 3) A placental site nodule is a benign lesion that usually presents as a single, smooth, raised lesion in the lower uterine segment. It may be associated with increased risk of preterm birth, but this needs to be confirmed by further evaluation.

Hello doctor,I am a 20 year old female. I have too much dry skin. I mean extra dry skin. I use almond oil and moisturizing soap, but it is not effective.

1. You need to be careful with your diet, as dietary deficiencies can cause excessive dryness of skin. Have a look at foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids such as walnuts, flaxseed, salmon etc. 2. Avoid exposure to sunlight. Use sunscreen whenever you go out.3. Apply moisturizer regularly.4. Take a multivitamin supplement.5. Do not use soaps containing sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS).6. Avoid using detergents or cleansers that contain SLS.7. Keep yourself well HY Chat Doctor.

Hi doctor,I have a squint in my right eye and it has moved outwards. I do not have a proper vision in my right. I cannot see clearly through my right eye; even I recognize thing pretty hard. I want to know whether it can be corrected, so that both my eyes work together. I am confused as I am now 26 years old. Is the correction going to be difficult at this age? I am looking up for a second opinion from you. Thank you.

 Hi Mr. Squints are usually congenital (born with) or acquired after birth. It is best if your parents take you to an ophthalmologist for evaluation. Depending on the type of squint, there are different treatment options like glasses, patching, prisms, etc. The earlier the condition is detected, the better the outcome will be. Hope I was able to help you Good luck!

Hi doctor,I am a 42 year old woman. Can I still conceive? Also, can I conceive twins without any risks?

1. Yes, you can conceive at your age. There is no upper limit of fertility in women. 2. No, you cannot have twins without any risk. It depends upon many factors like ovulation, semen quality etc. There are chances that you may conceive with some help. Please consult an infertility specialist for further guidance.

Hello doctor,I am a 28-year-old man with very less facial hair. Recent blood check-up shows that my DHEAS value is 195.9. Insulin check-up indicates that there is a high chance of becoming a diabetic patient. My doctor suggested me Ashwagandha, and I have been taking it for a month (two capsules per day). Not much gain. So, I would like to take DHEA supplements for beard growth, is it fine?

 Hi dear thanks for contacting Chat Doctor.dear your insulin level is high.it means you are diabetes patient.you need to control your sugar level by strict diet and regular exercise.you can try ashwagandha but dosage should be prescribed by your physician.be careful about your diet.take protein rich foods.avoid junk foods.take green vegetables and fruits.do regular exercise.do not worry you will be alright

Hello doctor,I am a 21-year-old male. I am having a burning sensation and redness in my scrotum. I consulted two doctors from the same hospital. The doctor diagnosed it as scrotal dermatitis. The first doctor prescribed the following: Motimesh cream (to be applied at night) for 10 days, Abzorb Dusting Powder to be applied morning for 15 days, Atarax tablet to be taken at night for 10 days. After taking this course, after 15 days the itching was gone but still there was considerable burning and redness and irritation. So, I visited the hospital again and the following course was prescribed: Venusia max cream to be applied morning and afternoon, Dazit tablet to be taken at night for 10 days, Desowen cream to be applied at night for 10 days. Now, this course is also done and though there is a considerable improvement I am still having little redness mostly on one side of the scrotum and also some burning sensation. Kindly help me from this irritation.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum, I would like to suggest you that this could be due to fungal or bacterial infection of the skin. You need to take an antifungal medication such as fluconazole or ketoconazole along with an antihistamine medicine such as cetirizine. And apply a steroid cream containing mometasone furoate over the affected area. If this doesn't work than you may have to take an oral antibiotic such as azithromycin. Hope this helps you. Let me know if you have any further queries.

Hello doctor,I am a female, 58, 5\10", 239lbs. I am having nausea every morning. It comes and goes during the day. I also have black stools, belly pain, and gas. I am on Lexapro 10 mg, Pramipexole 3 mg, Lamotrigine 25 mg twice daily and 200 mg once, Meloxicam 15 mg, Metformin 500 mg, Gabapentin 300 mg, and Atorvastatin 40 mg.

1) You need to be evaluated for any nutritional deficiencies or anemia, especially with all these medications...and if there is some problem in absorption of food or nutrients then this could explain your symptoms.2) I would suggest that you get an upper GI endoscopy done to rule out any problems like gastritis, hiatus hernia etc., which can cause similar symptoms.3) There may be other reasons for such symptoms as well (like liver dysfunction), so it will do well if you get a complete blood count, liver function tests, kidney function tests, thyroid profile etc. done...and consult a physician after getting all reports.

Hi doctor,I took the first abortion pill but until now, I did not get bleed. What is the reason?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. The reason for delay in bleeding after taking the abortion pills can be due to :1. Retained products of conception (embryo or fetal tissue).2. Hormonal imbalance which may lead to hormone resistance.3. You might have taken the second dose too early.4. You might have had an incomplete abortion and need surgical intervention.5. In case if you have any other symptoms like fever, pain, nausea, vomiting etc., then it would require immediate attention.6. There are some medications that can cause delayed bleeding like anti-inflammatory medicines, aspirin, herbals etc. So consult your gynecologist as soon as possible. Hope this helps you. Wishing you good health. Thank you

Hello doctor,I am a 23-year-old male. I have no symptoms and I am not taking any current medication. Three years ago I once went to the hospital because I felt my heart was beating really fast, and they did some EKG scans and a blood test on me saying that everything is normal. They also gave me the Holter monitor and when they checked the results they said this was normal. I do not smoke or drink alcohol maybe three times a year I will drink. I used to do some shisha but that has stopped for the past three years.Since then I have never been to a hospital for the health of my heart. However, since then, my heartbeat has just been higher than everyone else but I do not get headaches or any other symptoms. I used to stress a lot. However, things are going well now and it has cut down. I wake up at times during the night but fall back asleep very easily. I have done gym and dance classes for over a year and I feel fine when working out.I went to the GP just a week ago due to my girlfriend having some concerns. I asked them to do a regular check and they said my heartbeat at that moment was 98 and he said this was fine. However, my girlfriend gets really worried about this and feels that something will happen to me. She just needs some medical advice in order to get her the assurance. She has been checking online for some answers and it is said stuff like arrhythmia, tachycardia, etc. She also says that the normal is between 80-100 bpm and why is mine on the top end? Is it a serious cause? Or does heart and pulse rate vary? Also, I have been checking the prevalence of heart diseases, etc., online and it is very rare for someone at my age. What more should be done?

 Hi there, You might want to consider seeing your family physician if you have had an episode of palpitations in the past without any apparent reason. I would recommend undergoing a few tests such as an ECG, echocardiogram, and Holder monitoring which might help us determine what is causing your palpitations. It may not necessarily be related to your heart but might be related to your thyroid hormone levels, electrolyte imbalance or even anxiety.

Hello doctor,The patient is suffering from loose motions. Kindly help me to deal with it.

1) The first thing that needs to be done is to get a stool test for ova and cyst. This will tell us if there are any parasites present in the intestines which is causing diarrhea.2) You need to take zinc supplements as this helps in healing of the mucosa lining of the intestine.3) You can also try taking an anti-diarrheal like Loperamide (if not allergic).4) Avoid fatty foods and spicy foods.5) Increase your water intake.6) Take probiotics like yogurt or curd. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hello doctor,I am a 25-year-old male. I have only one testis. I have sexual feelings as a normal man would do. I am masturbating about once every week. Will a single testis cause any problem in the future? Recently, I had my first sex with my partner. At that time I was tensed and also had difficulty while penetrating her vagina. Please help.

1) No it is not a problem to have a single testicle.2) Your erectile dysfunction has nothing to do with your testicle. It can be due to psychological factors or physical causes like diabetes, neurological disorders etc.3) You need to consult a urologist for evaluation of erectile dysfunction.4) Masturbation is not bad. In fact, it helps to increase the blood flow to the genital area which may help during intercourse.

Hi doctor,Please explain about the causes of the IBS. How can it be managed? Please advice.

 Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. I can understand your concern. Irritable bowel syn Chat Doctor.  It is chronic condition and not curable but manageable. Usually it occurs due to stress and anxiety. Increased intake of spicy food, carbonated water, alcohol etc. also aggravates symptoms. So avoidance of these things will help in better control of symptoms. Avoidance of high fiber diet like fruits and vegetables may also cause symptoms. So take low fiber diet. Take bland diet. Avoid fast food and junk food. Avoid large meals, instead take frequent small meals. Avoid smoking and alcohol if you have habit of it. Get done blood test for anemia and other related tests as per need. Consult gastroenterologist for further work up. Hope I have solved your query. Wish you good health. Thanks

Hi doctor,When I was opening a powerful glue bottle, two small drops of glue went into my left eye. After two months, I observed black spots on the whitish part of my eye. Please help.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com. I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. Your symptoms may be due to corneal ulcer secondary to foreign body injury. You should consult an Ophthalmologist for proper clinical examination and further treatment. Hope you found the answer helpful. If you need any clarification / have doubts / have additional questions / have follow-up questions, then please do not hesitate in asking again. I will be happy to answer your questions. Best Wishes for Speedy Recovery Let me know if I can assist you further. Take care.

Hello doctor,I am a 22 years old woman. My period got delayed by 20 days. I had intercourse with my partner. I have mild pain in my abdomen and there is brownish vaginal discharge. I took urine test and a faint pink line along with a strong pink line appeared. Am I pregnant? If so what medication should I take to avoid pregnancy? Also, if I take a blood test now, will it be more accurate?

1) The urine test you have taken may not be very reliable as it gives false positive results. You need to wait for at least another week before repeating the urine test. Blood tests are more reliable than urine tests.2) Since your periods are overdue by 20 days, you need to get an ultrasound done to confirm or rule out pregnancy.3) If you want to avoid pregnancy, do not have any sexual contact until the time of your next menstrual cycle.4) If you miss your period this month, repeat the above-mentioned tests and consult a gynecologist.

Hi doctor,I am a 19 year old girl. I have a very stupid habit that has caused a lot of problem for me, I have met a lot of psychologists, but I could never talk about my exact problem with them. It seems to be a ridiculous problem, but I ask your sincere help. When I was 15 years old, I watched a romantic movie which caused my problem, since then I made an imaginary life with an imaginary man in my mind. I have got involved with this problem for years. When I was a child, I had difficulties which I could not solve at that time, so I started fantasizing and tried not to involve myself in real life\s problem. But then, there was no love in my imagination, I was a very happy successful girl, and I was a famous, respectful person.But after I got defeated at a state level game, I understood that I am not intelligent enough to achieve such goals, I was so depressed with no enthusiasm in studying. I got to know about sex and intercourse, I was confused and hated my gender, I thought of changing my gender. I had depression, and I was so disappointed about life. Then I started to imagine a man who lived with me, and I loved him so much. Instead of facing my life problems, I used to fantasize about him. From last year I have imaginary sex with him.The problem I have is that my life is interrupted by my imagination. I cannot deal with other students, especially boys. I have lost my confidence, do not have the enthusiasm to study. I cannot focus when I am in the class, and I do not take any efforts to solve my problem. I just keep imaging a peaceful life with no problems, sometimes when I cannot control my anxiety and stress, I start having sex in my mind. I do not know what to do, and I want to stop this imaginary life. How do I stop this imaginary life and love? I know this man is not real, and whenever my imaginary life becomes sad, it has an influence on my real life. I currently take tablet Levebel 500 mg, two tablets a day.

 Hi dear, I understand your concern. You have been suffering from delusional disorder. In your case it can be due to depression or anxiety. You need to consult a psychiatrist who will diagnose your condition and treat accordingly. Medications like SSRI Chat Doctor.....you should also try cognitive behavioral therapy. Hopefully this information will be helpful to you. Wish you good health.

Hello doctor,I and my partner had healthy sex. The next day she had periods and after six days we had unprotected sex due to which she had taken i-pill on that evening. Two months passed she still did not get her periods. I am worried. Please suggest any solution. Two years back also she has taken i-pill. This is the third time she is taking. Is it possible that she may not have periods for the whole life? Please help.

1) The pill is an emergency contraceptive and can be used in case of unprotected intercourse. It does not prevent pregnancy every time if there was no ovulation.2) If your girlfriend has been having regular cycles before this episode and now has missed her period, then it is unlikely that she will go into menopause.3) You should consult a gynecologist who would examine her and advise further management.

Hello doctor,My mother has abdominal tuberculosis, duodenum stricture, and obstruction in rectosigmoid and distal sigmoid colon. She does not take any food, not even liquid food. And she does not pass urine and stools from the past four months. Please help.

1) TB is a fatal disease but curable with proper treatment.2) Duodenal strictures can be treated by endoscopic means (stenting).3) Recto-sigmoid obstructions need to be operated upon if there is no response to medications.4) Stools passing and urination may be restored once above measures get implemented.5) I suggest that your family consults a good surgeon for management of her condition.

Hello doctor,Can a possible wisdom tooth cause neck and arm pain? My tooth hurts on the same side as neck and arm.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As your tooth is causing pain in neck and arm, it can be due to inflammation of the nerve of the tooth or due to its infection. I would suggest you to consult an Oral Physician and get evaluated for the same. X-ray will help in diagnosing the condition. You may need antibiotics and anti-inflammatory medications to relieve the symptoms. Hope this helps you. Wishing you good health.

Hi doctor,I am a student and I have been good at studies always. And I want to be a doctor but I somehow could not manage to get a seat in government medical college. I did not work hard enough. I am 21 now. My parents are very supportive and I am preparing for exam. But I am really scared of everything. I know I am stronger than this but how can I stay calm and happy during this process?

1. You should try to find out why you are so stressed. Is it because you feel that your parents expect too much from you or is it because you are feeling guilty about not performing well in exams?2. Once you figure out the reason behind stress, then you need to take remedial measures. Talk to your parents and tell them that you understand their expectation from you but you also wish to do something by yourself.3. For the exam, you can use relaxation techniques like deep breathing and progressive muscle relaxation.4. For anxiety, you can consult a psychiatrist who will prescribe you medicines like clonazepam which helps in reducing anxiety.5. You may also join Yoga classes as they help in relaxation and concentration. Hope this helps you.

Hi doctor,I have bitten an olive pit accidentally, and now, one of my front teeth is moving. There is no pain, and I have a slight sensitivity to cold and hot foods. But now I cannot bite anything using my front teeth. Please advise.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you say that your front teeth is moving, in this case it might be due to the fracture or displacement of the crown of the tooth. You can visit the dentist nearby for clinical examination and radiograph (OPG). If needed then go for Root canal treatment or extraction followed by implant placement. Hope this helps you. Wishing you good health. Thank you.

Hello doctor,I had a strange ECG from my watch. No one else looks like mine, and my primary doctor said that it is anxiety.

1. I am not sure what type of ECG you are talking about. Can you provide more information?2. Anxiety can cause palpitations but an ECG cannot show this. It may be possible to have a false positive for anxiety.3. If your symptoms are typical for anxiety, then they should respond well to treatment.4. If you still have concerns after seeing your doctor, you may want to see another physician for a second opinion.5. If you have other symptoms such as chest pain or shortness of breath, then it would be important to get these evaluated by a physician. Hope this answers your question. Please feel free to contact me if you need further clarifications.

Hello doctor,I am a 30-year-old female. A thyroid profile done recently shows the TSH at 1.95, T4 at 13.9, and T3 at 113. I am on Eltroxin 100 mcg and folic acid. I am planning for pregnancy. Please advice.

 Hi there,The current levels of your hormones are within normal range, so you need not worry about them. However, if you want to conceive, it is best to try to keep the level of TSH below 2.5. This can be achieved by reducing the dose of Eltroxin or increasing the dose of levothyroxine. In addition, you should also increase the dose of vitamin B12 (injection) as well as folic acid supplementation. The other issue that needs attention is your weight. You should aim to maintain a body mass index between 18.5-24.9 kg/m^2. As long as you have no other health issues such as high blood pressure or diabetes, you should be able to conceive without any problems. Hope this helps.

Hello doctor,Hair loss. I want to increase my hair. In some areas, hair is not coming. Please suggest something.

 Hi welcome to Chat Doctor forum.  Thanks for your query. The best way to increase hair growth is to take proper nutrition and avoid stress. You can use shampoo with minoxidil or ketoconazole 2% twice weekly. Use mild shampoos like sulfur soap or almond oil for washing your hair. Massage of scalp with olive oil at night will also help in hair growth. Take biotin tablets daily. Avoid tight hair bands and combing. You should consult your dermatologist if the problem persists. Hope this helps you. Wishing you good health.

Hello doctor,I have had every STD screen known to man and kidney function tests, my urine is foul smelling and dark. This has been an ongoing issue for a year and it has started to affect my life. I have tried everything. Antibiotics, hydration, douche, apple cider vinegar, AZO pills, yeast infection drugs, UTI drugs.

1. You need to exclude possible causes of your symptoms like Urinary tract infections, stones, renal failure etc. Please consult qualified urologist and get examined and investigated accordingly.2. Meanwhile take plenty of water orally as well as in form of fluids (warm).3. Take antispasmodic medicine if painful micturition.4. Take urine alkalizer and multivitamin tablets regularly.5. Do not worry, you will be fine with proper treatment.

Hello doctor,I have had four follicles ruptured from my left ovary and one from the right. I have had IUI back to back for two consecutive days. But my major concern is I have a unicornate uterus with a left rudimentary horn. I recently had lap because I had a cyst on my right ovary. The doctor says I have been ovulating perfectly every time. I am depressed abt the fact that left tube is absent but four follicles ruptured on the same side. Please give me some hope of getting pregnant. The endometrium lining is 9 mm which the doctor said is very good. And, this is my first IUI after lap.

1) Unicornuate uterus with one rudimentary horn can cause difficulty in conceiving as it may not allow the fertilized egg to enter into the uterine cavity.2) In your case, since there was no tubal blockage, it seems that all the eggs were released into the fallopian tube. This means that you should be able to get pregnant provided the eggs are fertilized (which is possible if they meet up with sperms).3) It is better to consult an infertility specialist who would guide you about the possibility of conception and the treatment options available.

Hi doctor,I am a boy, 18 years old. My right knee has clicking sound without any pain. Please help me out of this. Is this symptom of any big disease? Tell me some things to cure this.

 Hi Dear, Welcome to Chat Doctor. I have gone through your query and understand your concern. You may be having arthritis or other joint disorder which is causing the clicking sound without pain. You should consult an Orthopedic Surgeon for clinical examination and investigations like X-ray, MRI etc. to confirm the diagnosis and treatment can be done accordingly. Meanwhile, avoid sudden jerky movements of your knee. Take painskillers like Diclofenac twice daily after food. You will be fine. Hope this helps. Regards

Hello doctor, My infected sebaceous cyst has burst 10 days back and daily dressing is being done by professional. I was on antibiotics but the course is over. What should I do next? I do not want to go to the hospital and get the surgery done. Since more than ten years two cyst was there and of late it merged intoone.May be in the second week of last month, I started getting an itching sensation andthe place becoming red and after a few days it burst. Since then regularly it is being dressedwith the removal of pus. It has created a deep hole. Please help.

1. The treatment for such lesions can only be decided after seeing them directly. But if the cyst is large enough, you can try this home remedy which will help you get rid of the cyst without any surgical intervention:-Take one tablespoon each of turmeric powder and chili powder, mix well and apply over the cyst. Leave it for about 2-3 hours before rinsing off with warm water.-Repeat this process twice or thrice daily for about 5-7 days. This will reduce the size of the cyst and eventually disappear.-If the cyst persists even after this, consult a dermatologist who may advise you surgical excision of the cyst.

Hello doctor,I suppose to get the sleeve bariatric surgery and I was taking Adepix and I stopped it a week ago. My surgeon told me he thinks I have to be off Adepix for three months before surgery. I only took it for three weeks. Is this true? He said it may interfere with anesthesia?

1. Yes, your surgeon is correct.3-month gap between Adepix use & surgery is recommended.2. No, Adepix does not affect anesthesia. It can cause problems with anesthetics if used during surgical procedure as it can make the anesthetic less effective. But that is not the case here.3. In general, any medication that is used in long term should be stopped at least 7 days prior to surgery. This gives body time to metabolize it fully and also reduces risk of interaction with other medications or anesthetics.4. Please do not worry. Your surgeon has done his job properly.

Hello doctor,About four weeks ago, my right testicle started moving in an uncomfortable (not painful) way. I had a torsion and surgery to stitch down (both) 2.5 years ago. I went to the first doctor and he tried me on muscle relaxants, nothing changed so he referred me to a specialist. The specialist had a quick feel and then told me it was normal, that I should not worry and that I would have to get used to it. He also implied it has been happening since the operation and I just did not notice.There is still no pain, only discomfort (it varies) normally when I walk. I think that my right testicle is a tiny bit swollen and slightly squishier than my left and while I could live with this, I really do not want to. Though I have suffered no injuries to my testicles recently, I actually think that one of my stitches has come loose as I can feel the end on the stitch lump where I could not before. I am 88 kilos and have lost 12 kg over the last nine months. I have have been running more frequently for about eight weeks. I am 24 years old.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your symptoms, it seems like there is some problem in your right testis. It may be due to infection or inflammation. So better to consult a urologist and get examined and investigated. You need to take treatment accordingly. Till then, keep your scrotum clean and Chat Doctor.  Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further. Take care

Hello doctor,I weaned off of 40 mg of Paroxetine very slowly but my sleep was impacted and as of two months, I have been suffering from extreme insomnia. I have gone back to medication and I am currently on 20 mg of Paroxetine and 10 mg of Fluoxetine, but my insomnia has continued. I was prescribed Ativan (0.5 mg) for sleep, and it sometimes helps, but not always. Even if I take a bit more (I have taken up to .75 total), it does not always help me sleep. My psychiatrist prescribed Trazodone (she suggested I start at 25 mg and if I feel no effect, to take another 25 mg/ go up to 50 mg in one night (but I am concerned about serotonin syndrome from taking another medication that messes with Serotonin). Can you advise if I should be concerned about serotonin syndrome if I take the 25 (or 50) mg of Trazodone? Additionally, should I be concerned about anything else in terms of taking these three medications together?

Hi, Thanks for writing in. The dose of trazodone is usually started at 12.5 mg and then increased by 12.5 mg every 3-4 days after monitoring for side effects like hypotension or sedation. So don't worry about the dosage. However, it is important to know that it could cause some dizziness, blurred vision, orthostatic hypotension etc. You need to monitor your blood pressure when you take this medication. It is also important to note that this medication can interact with other Chat Doctor.  So before starting any new medication, you need to discuss all the possible side effects of the medicines with your doctor.

Hi doctor,I am 24 and having an active sexual life. I have two questions. First I have noticed that my performance is erratic as in there are times when I can last 5-6 minutes and then the very next day it can go to 30-35 minutes. It is different with different partners. Second and more alarming is that I have been experiencing a stinging pain in my scrotum on the left side it usually happens when I stand up while sitting or laying and sometimes while walking. I tried finding the source of the pain by pressing in different regions but could not find one. Also, it happens at the back side of the scrotum. It is limited to the left side and has been increasing with each passing day. I thought of UTI, but my pee does not burn. Can I have some suggestions for my problems? Thank you.

1) Your problem may be due to your anxiety about performance. This will affect your performance and you will feel anxious even before intercourse. You should try to avoid such situations. 2) The stinging sensation is likely due to inflammation of the skin. You need to take anti-inflammatory medicines like diclofenac sodium twice daily for few days. 3) You also need to check if you are suffering from any sexually transmitted disease (STD). Get yourself checked for STD and treat accordingly.

Hello doctor,The gums where my wisdom tooth is present is in pain.

 Hi, I am sorry that your wisdom teeth are causing you pain and discomfort. The wisdom teeth erupt at an angle towards the opposing molar and if there is not enough space for them then they get impacted or stuck in the jaw bone. This can cause swelling, pain and difficulty with chewing due to pressure on adjacent teeth. You need to visit a dentist for treatment. In some cases extraction of the wisdom teeth may be required. Please do not delay as this will only worsen the situation.

Hi doctor,I had unprotected sex with my partner without any penetration. I rubbed my penis over her vagina. I might have a little semen present in it. She usually has a periods cycle of 33 to 35 days. But her periods got delayed this month. Is she pregnant? Why is there a delay in her periods? Is there any typical food available to bring her periods on time?

1) You should be aware that pre-cum contains sperm and can result in pregnancy if ejaculated into the vagina.2) It is possible for your girlfriend to get pregnant, but unlikely. The reason being is that it takes about 7 days before ovulation occurs after the start of her period, so even though she may have had intercourse near the time of ovulation (which is when fertilization is most likely), it is still not likely that she would be pregnant. 3) In general, having unprotected sex during the first week of a menstrual cycle will increase the chance of becoming pregnant compared to other times in the cycle because ovulation occurs around day 14 of the cycle. 4) There is no specific diet that can help induce a period. However, some women find that eating more fruits and vegetables helps regulate their cycles.

Hi doctor,I am a 20 year old girl and have a small vaginal opening. My husband and I hardly have sex because it hurts me so badly. What can I do to stop it from being so painful?

1) Please get an examination done by your gynecologist for any possible abnormality in your genital tract like polyp/fibroid/endometriosis etc., 2) The best way to avoid pain during intercourse is to use the pillow under the hips and lie down on the back with the pelvis raised up. This will reduce the pressure on the vagina and make penetration easier.3) Another option would be to try different sexual positions. Try lying on your side or stomach instead of the back. This may help to create more space between the vagina and rectum as well as decrease the weight of the vagina on the cervix.4) Avoid using lubricants and condoms which can further aggravate the problem.5) Always start with foreplay before penetrative sex. Foreplay helps relax the muscles in the vagina and makes them less sensitive

Hello doctor,A throbbing and recurring headache, nausea, and dizziness. I am an 18-year-old female.

 Hello! Welcome to Chat Doctor! It is difficult without knowing your full history to make any conclusions about what could be causing these symptoms. However, as a general rule it would be worthwhile to get checked for any vitamin or mineral deficiencies such as B12, Folate, Iron, Magnesium, Calcium etc. It may also be worthwhile getting checked for thyroid function, as this can occasionally cause similar symptoms. You should also consider having a blood test to check for anemia. This would help us narrow down possible causes and thus treatment options. Please do not hesitate to ask if you have further questions. Best wishes,

Hi doctor,My mother is 65 years old (height 4\11", weight 64 kg), and has been doing all the household chores since she was 20 years. She has no problems except diabetes. Since one week, she started getting lower back pain. The symptoms are if she is in a sleeping position and gets up and starts walking, there is no problem. But if she is in a sitting position and gets up to walk, there is sharp lower back pain. Can you please let me know what could be the reason? How can the pain be relieved? Any special exercises or chair or vitamin supplements, etc.?

1. I would like to do an x-ray of her lumbosacral spine for the diagnosis.2. I would also like to examine her physically by palpation and assessment of muscle strength and reflexes.3. At this point, I would advise her to start with analgesics as required, and physical therapy would help her improve her posture and core stability.4. There should not be any major issue but it will take some time to get better.5. Avoid lifting heavy weights and sit in a straight line.

Hi doctor,I am having some allergy on the head part and the inner skin of my penis. I have some white bubble like spots. Please help.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. Follow-up question will be appreciated. Hope you found the answer helpful. If you need any clarification / have doubts / have additional questions / have follow-up questions, then please do not hesitate in asking again. I will be happy to answer your questions. In the future, for continuity of care, I encourage you to contact me directly in Chat Doctor at http://bit.ly/ask

Hello doctor,I am not able to conceive after trying for almost one year. I was diagnosed with pituitary microadenoma and I am on medication. My prolactin levels have now reached normal levels after two months taking medication.I suffer from hypothyroidism and on medication. I have had this for five years now and it is well within the limits as per my endocrinologist now. This is due to an autoimmune disease where my TPO (thyroid peroxidase) antibodies were high during the diagnosis five years ago. My husband and I would like to know how should we best prepare for pregnancy and what to look out for. We would have preferred to visit the clinic. Unfortunately, I am not in a position to visit the doctor due to travel restrictions. It would be great to get in touch with a specialist.I am currently on Euthrox 100 mcg, Cabergoline 0.25 mg once a week, and Folic acid 450 mg daily.

 Hi, Thanks for writing in. Your doctors have advised you rightly that thyroid hormone levels should be regulated before planning for conception. Hypothyroidism can cause infertility by affecting ovulation and menstrual cycle. You need to maintain your thyroid levels below 2.5 mU/L. The medicines you are taking are correct to keep your thyroid hormones under control. As far as prolactin is concerned, it will take some time to come down to the normal level. Once it is normal, then you may plan for conception. Please do not worry about conceiving.

Hi doctor,I am a 45 year old male. I had an accident before 10 years. At that time, my knee x-ray was done and I was reported to have osteoarthritis. I have been suffering from pain for few years. I have lower back pain and pain in some of the joints. For the past few weeks, I have pain in my left palm, particularly in my finger joints and more on left middle finger joint. Also, on my foot joints. I also feel very fatigued and tired. My blood pressure (BP) was 110/70 mmHg a week back. I am enclosing a comprehensive blood test report, which was done very recently and I have advised to take tablet Nusam 400 for six months. I have been taking for the past two months. Please suggest me the remedy and preventive measures.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your symptoms, it seems like nerve compression at the cervical spine level, or may be due to vitamin deficiency. You should consult a neurologist for diagnosis and treatment. I will advise you to follow these steps for better recovery. 1. Avoid movements causing pain2. Use soft pillow while sleeping3. Take vitamin B complex supplements4. Take calcium and vitamin D supplements5. Do hot fomentation and mobilization exercises6. Avoid heavyweight lifting7. Wear cervical collar if there is severe neck pain Hope this helps you. Wish you good health. Thank you

Hello doctor,My right side jaw is paining while having food. On consultation, I was advised for physiotherapy. What could be the reason for it?

 Hi, thanks for posting your query to Chat Doctor. I would like to tell you that there can be many reasons of this problem and some common ones are TMJ arthritis, TMJ disc displacement or TMJ muscle spasm. Physical therapist will do joint mobilization exercises which will help in improving the range of motion of the jaw and also reduce the pain. So don't worry as there are many treatment options available for this. Hope I have been able to resolve your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hi doctor,I have developed a small white dot on my thigh a few months back. Now, the size has increased. Is this any sign of leucoderma?

 Hi, welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As per your history it seems to be some benign skin lesion which is increasing in size. You should consult dermatologist for exact diagnosis and treatment. It can be due to many reasons like Sebaceous cyst, Lipoma etc. So consult dermatologist and get examined. Hope I have answered your query. Take care

Hi doctor,I was attacked by mumps around three years back and now my testicle sizes are different. So, I wanted to know about the treatment. Will I get rejected in visa medical test? I am a petroleum engineer. Please help.

1) Mumps is a viral disease that affects salivary glands. It can cause swelling of the testicles as well as other parts of the body.2) The symptoms usually go away within 7-10 days.3) There is no specific treatment for the condition.4) Avoid eating spicy foods or chilled beverages.5) Take plenty of fluids.6) Wear loose fitting clothes.7) Do not use tight undergarments.8) Apply warm compresses to your testicles.9) You will need to see a urologist if there has been any change in your testicle size after this episode or if you have had any pain in your testicles since.

Hello doctor,I have stretch marks on my whole body, and I want to remove them as they are white. Please suggest me some medicine to remove them in a year as after a year I have my marriage. And I get these stretch marks at the time of puberty, and I had mentally suffered because of the stretch marks, and I cannot wear sleeveless clothes.

1. Stretch marks are caused by rapid stretching of skin due to weight gain or pregnancy.2. There is no permanent treatment for stretch marks but there are many cosmetic procedures which can help to reduce their appearance.3. The best way to prevent stretch marks is to avoid gaining too much weight rapidly and to stay well hydrated.4. You should use moisturizers with vitamin E regularly.5. You may also try laser therapy for reducing stretch marks. Hope this answers your query.

Hello doctor,My mother was not having her periods from the past five years, but from yesterday, she started bleeding again. In these five years, she has not even bled for a single day. Why is she bleeding all of a sudden? What can be the cause?

1-5 years without period is called amenorrhea2-the reason may be hormonal imbalance or some pathology3-if there is no other symptoms like pain in abdomen then it's ok4-but if there is any sign and symptom than consult your gynecologistHi, thanks for asking question. It looks that your mother might have had some kind of pathology which could have caused amenorrhea. I would advise to visit gynecologist and get herself examined. She should go for ultrasound, hormone levels, pap smear etc. Hope this will help you.

Good day, please i was diagnose with hep b positive 18months ago, my consulting tild me my condition i\xc5\x9f inactive and need no medication. some month back i was feeling hurt at my chest i was later diagnose with ulcer. some some weeks now have been having pains around my chest and most especially middle of my check. please what is happening to me?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. I am sorry to hear about your illness. You seem to be suffering from Hepatitis B virus infection. The treatment depends upon the type of infection you are suffering from. For active infections like acute hepatitis B, interferon alpha or lamivudine (antiviral agents) should be given for a period of six months to one year. In case of chronic hepatitis B, patients should receive long term treatment with lamivudine for a prolonged duration, which may be many years. You must also get regular liver function tests done to monitor the response to therapy. You can discuss this further with your treating doctor. Please do not worry. Hope this helps you. Take care.

Hello doctor,I got bitten by what I am thinking a spider a week back. I figured since it seemed to have a little white and liquid coming out. So, I squeezed it. It has been four days and the bite is painful. Now I have a white circle where it once was just red and oozing. I have tried Cortisone but I do not see it getting better.

1) The best treatment for most spiders is to leave them alone and let nature take its course.2) For most spiders, symptoms usually last less than two weeks.3) For spiders that cause more severe reactions, such as brown recluse or black widow spiders, seek immediate medical attention.4) For other spiders, watch for signs of infection (such as increasing redness, swelling, warmth, or tenderness at the site), which may indicate the need for antibiotics.

Hello doctor,I am having pain shooting down from my neck (just behind my right ear) down into my fingers. Also, on my right side near my breast with a slight headache as well. What it could be?

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you describe your problem I feel that there is some internal problem in your body which will lead to this symptoms. But before going for any treatment, you should get physically examined by a neurologist and physical therapist to rule out any cause of your problems. If they find anything then proper treatment can be started.  Hope I have been helpful. Regards

Hello doctor,I had an umbilical hernia repair 11 days ago. It went fine, but 10 days later when I laid down my belly button pup out one inch then went back down. The next morning my belly button is out half an inch. My surgeon said just wait for a couple of days to see if it goes back down. I need to know if I should wait or get in right away. The belly button is a little tender.

 Hi there! Thanks for writing your query at Chat Doctor! I understand your concern and will try to help you as much as possible. Uhbillical Hernia can reoccur after surgery due to the weakness of the abdominal wall muscles. This happens with time. Since you have noticed that the herniation has increased, you may want to go back to your surgeon who may do another procedure called a "Bilateral Tension Free Repair". I hope this helps. Please feel free to write me back for any further clarifications.

Hello doctor,My baby is 36 days old. He is passing stool very frequently like 15 times with little or more motion but not very heavy in the last 48 hours. The stool was curdy yellowish color, not like runny or watery, no greenish, no blood, no bubbles. He had the same issue when he was 18 days old, and in between, he was healthy but again he kept going motion and redness spotted in anus area with small spots of skin peel.Baby sleeps well, does not cry, passes urine usually in a good number of times, and only mother breastfeeding every two hours. Please request your advice on how to stop this frequent motion and reason for this happening and is this normal? He also makes a noise like sounding from inside especially more during night time, having trouble while breathing due to a chest cold, so am giving Rinoclear saline drops three to six hours once depending on his nose block. Please advise why baby makes such noise, is it normal?I was feeding breast milk via bottle for four to five days when he was two weeks old since he was unable to suck through mother\s nipple. I stopped bottle when I encountered this frequent motion and with my doctor\s advice.

 Hi welcome to Chat Doctor forum.  Thanks for calling Chat Doctor. Forum.  I have gone through your query and would try to help you out in the best possible way.  Your kid seems to be suffering from colic.  It should get better after few days.  You need not worry as it will be fine.  Do not use ointments over the anal region.  Use clean cotton cloths to wipe the anal region.  Keep the area clean.  You may consult pediatrician if symptoms persist. Hope I have answered your question.  If further any question I will help

Hello doctor,If I get my wisdom teeth extracted, do my second molars shift in that empty spot?

 Hi welcome to Chat Doctor forum. Thanks for posting your query here, I will try to help you out. Yes if you have extraction of wisdom tooth then there is chance of shifting of other tooth in that position. As when tooth is removed from its place it cause change in bite and position of opposite tooth. So consult dentist for checkup and find solution to this problem. Hope I answered your query. If you want any further clarification contact me on this number +918654370726

Hello doctor,I am in love with my relative. We both have each other in someplace in our mind and I know it. She is a high achiever in her career, and I work hard to achieve stuff and good at studies but not as high as her. I faced real kind of depression earlier and often get it. So, I find happiness in everything. What I find difficult is to commit to her in some way as I see she may get a better person who will be supportive to her achievement. I do not underestimate myself, but there is a dilemma which is hurting me in my mind. Please advice.

1) It is possible that you are getting confused between your own self-worth and the worth of others. You need to understand that you have value and potential too.2) Secondly, I would recommend you to visit a psychiatrist for an evaluation. There could be a possibility of a mild depressive episode or even bipolar disorder.3) Thirdly, if needed, medications like fluoxetine can help you stabilize your moods.4) Finally, I would suggest that you take time out from your busy schedule and plan for your future. Take up activities that you enjoy and think about what makes you happy.

Hello doctor,I suspect I may have tapeworms. How can I be sure and what can I do to get rid of them?

1) You should see your physician for a physical examination as well as blood tests to rule out other causes of symptoms such as anemia or parasites (blood tests).2) You need to go to your doctor for a prescription for medication to treat the possible infection.3) You also need to take a course of antibiotics to help clear up any infections that may be present.4) You will need to take anti-parasitic medicine to kill off the worms.5) You should also avoid eating raw meat products.6) You should avoid eating foods that contain eggs or uncooked meat.7) Chat Doctor.

Hi doctor,My periods started 14 days before and I had sex eight days back. Should I take pills after unsafe sex? If yes, what is the procedure to take I-pill?

1. Yes, you should take emergency contraceptive pill if it was unprotected sex. 2. You can get it from any pharmacy or chemist shop without prescription.3. Take one tablet within 72 hours of unprotected sex. 4. It will help in preventing pregnancy by delaying ovulation.5. But it has no effect on already fertilized egg. So it is better to take it as soon as possible in case of unprotected sex. Hope this helps you.

Hello doctor, I am suffering from a cold sore type infection in my mouth especially at lips. Same was occurred last year and again it repeated this year. And as on today it is the third time it is coming and curing within a period of 10 to 20 days. I want to add photographs but do not know how. Further, currently it is on my lips and additional sores are there inside the upper part of my mouth. There is no pain. Please advise so that this can be permanently cured.I am currently taking Acivir 800.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. As you have mentioned that your lip sores are recurring since 1-2 years, what is the cause for this problem? Do you have any weak immune system or any other systemic disease? If yes, then you should consult an Oral Physician & take appropriate treatment. For now, you can apply topical antibacterial ointments like mupirocin or levofloxacin. You can also use topical steroid ointment like triamcinolone acetone. Avoid excessive touching of the sores with fingers. Maintain good oral hygiene. Take healthy diet rich in vitamins, minerals & proteins like green leafy vegetables, fruits, fish, eggs etc. Hope this helps. Wishing you fine recovery. Take care.

Hello doctor,I had an X-ray last Thursday and I got the result today. It says I have fibrosis in my right upper lobe. I had a history of pulmonary tuberculosis two years back and I took a six months medication and I am done with it. I just want to ask if fibrosis can be cured if I take medication and do exercise daily and eat healthy foods?

1) Fibrosis is irreversible but can be controlled by regular follow up and taking medications prescribed by your treating physician.2) Regular exercises will help slow down the progression of fibrotic disease3) Eat nutritious diet rich in fruits and vegetable which also contain antioxidants which helps in reducing oxidative stress caused due to fibrosis4) You need to visit your treating physician for further management.

Hi doctor,I am 9 months pregnant, and I have some doubts with my recent free T3, T4, and TSH levels. My Triiodothyronine total (T3) is 208.57. What is it? Is it something to worry or is it normal? My TSH is under control, and it is 2.63 now.

1. The normal range for Free Thyroxin levels in pregnancy is 0.9-1.8 mcg/DL. Your level of Free Thyroxin is slightly higher than the normal range, but not by much. However, if your symptoms are suggesting that you may be hypothyroid, then you should get your thyroid hormone levels checked again after delivery.2. Please remember that the results of your blood tests will vary from lab to lab. So, don't compare your test result with someone else's.

Hello doctor,I have a bump on the right backside of the roof of my mouth. It is right next to the tooth that is farther back. It has pain when I brush my tongue over it. Also giving me a slight headache and earache. I recently went to the dentist for a cleaning, and they said my wisdom teeth were not even showing so what could this be?

 Hi, Good Evening. Thanks for your query to Chat Doctor. Read and understand your problem correctly. As per your history, there can be two possibilities.1) You may have some periodontal abscess or gingival boil in relation with the wisdom tooth eruption.2) It could be due to the gum related pathologies like gingivitis, periodontitis and pyorrhea.3) It can also be because of the salivary gland swelling.4) The other possibility is related to the sinusitis. So better get examined by an Oral Physician/Periodontist and go for the necessary investigations including x-ray (OPG). Based on the diagnosis, treatment will be given accordingly. Hope this reply would help you to plan further treatment with your family physician/dentist. Welcome for any further query in this regard. Have a good time.

Hello doctor,My friend started vomiting last night and I noticed that his eyelids were red and bruised. Is there something else besides the vomiting that could have caused the bruised eyelids?

1) If he is taking any medication or blood thinner (Anti-coagulant), then it can cause bleeding in eyes.2) Due to the vomiting, the blood vessels in eyes get dilated and hence they appear red.3) It can be due to allergic reaction as well.4) The most common cause of this condition is called "Conjunctival Pemphigoid" which is an autoimmune disease where antibodies attack conjunctiva causing redness, swelling, pain and tearing.5) In such cases, the best treatment option is to apply steroid eye drops under your doctors guidance. Hope this helps you. Thanks!

Hello doctor,I had a chest x-ray and chest ct scan done. And they both came back normal. If I had emphysema would it have shown up on one of those two tests?

 Hi, Dear,Welcome to Chat Doctor. I am Chat Doctor. Navigate through my answer. Emphysema is not visible on X-ray or CT scan. It might be seen if there is an infection of lungs like pneumonia, which can lead to consolidation (collection of pus) in lung. So, your test results are normal. You need to consult pulmonologist for clinical examination and PFT (Pulmonary Function Test). PFT will help in diagnosis of emphysema along with other diseases like asthma, bronchitis etc. Hope above information helps you. If you find this reply helpful do rate it. Thank you.

Hi doctor,My daughter is 9 years old. She gets nose bleeding once in few months and also gum bleeding. She complains about occasional back pain, stomach burning, and hip pain too. My family physician has written down a series of tests and asked me to get opinions from a hematologist, gastroenterologist, and an orthopedic doctor respectively.

1) A blood test for hemophilia should be done for her if she is not taking any treatment for it.2) Also, a bone scan can rule out infection or other causes of bony pain.3) An esophagogastroduodenoscopy will help exclude peptic ulcer disease or some irritation from acid reflux.4) A colonoscopy will rule out inflammatory bowel disease.5) For pain relief, I would recommend that she take acetaminophen (Tylenol) for pain relief.

Hello doctor,I am facing erectile dysfunction for the last three to four years and also early ejaculation. Presently, I am using medicines for BP - Tenormin 50 mg and also for depression - Aplog 2 mg, Pethidine 50 mg and Mirtaz 15 mg for the past 10 years. My problem of ED and EE is from past five years. For this, I have used Suhagra tablet 50 to 100 mg and some sprays and Tantex capsules but there is no use. I am facing an embarrassing situation. Kindly give me an instant solution to this problem.

1) You may require a complete sexual health check-up which includes blood tests, urine tests, physical examination by a specialist, and possibly even psychological assessment. This would help determine if any physical or mental issues are contributing to your problems. 2) Medications like Cialis (Tadalafil), Viagra (Sildenafil Citrate), or Levitra (Vardenafil Hydrochloride) can be taken as needed before sexual activity. These medications work in different ways to increase blood flow to the penis when you become sexually aroused.3) Your diet should include plenty of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean proteins, and good fats. Avoid high-fat foods, fast foods, sugary snacks, and processed foods.4) Exercise regularly at least 4 times a week for 30 minutes each session. This

Hi doctor,I am a 19-year-old female. I lost my virginity about 10 months ago with my boyfriend. Now after 10 months has passed I found out that I have two warts inside my vagina. It is white color although, the one on the top started to have a slight pink color. But the second one on the bottom which is much smaller still has completely white color and around the vagina blades, I have a little while dots. Also, there are very tiny warts line along the blades. So, when I went to see the GP near my house he had a look and said that there is nothing to worry it is still small. But in my opinion, I think it is quite big. So the doctor gave me a prescription for Condyline paint which he told me to use for three days only per week and I have to keep using it for three weeks and if it does not get better he told me to see him again. Now I have a few questions. Is this mean I have an HPV virus inside my body? How can I make the virus go away permanently? Will Gardasil injection make it go away? If it does not go away permanently, how can I make sure that I have no HPV viruses and so these warts will not come back again? Is this mean that I have this HPV from my boyfriend? How to use Condyline paint correctly? I wash my vagina blades and use the cotton pads to dry it, then I use start to use the Condyline paint. I only dip the swab once into the reagent and then I open my vagina blades so that I am able to paint the two warts inside my vagina as much as I can. Then I paint it all over the very tiny warts in the vagina blades area. Am I doing it correctly?Now I have been using the Condyline for two days, but the very tiny warts that are around the vagina blades started to grow more. Is this mean anything? Can condoms prevent these HPV viruses? If I break up with my boyfriend, will this help my symptoms and health to become better? I am very scared of whether this can leads to cancer? I do not want this to ever happen to me again, how can I prevent this to happen again?If my warts are gone can I have sex with my boyfriend? Will these symptoms comeback again? If I decided to buy the Gardasil injection and injected it now, then the next after two months, then next after six months, but during this time can I have sex with my boy friend? Will the vaccine still work?

1. No, HPV is a common problem among young people. Most people who have it never know they have it because they never develop any problems or symptoms.  2. You should be screened for other STDs like Chlamydia and Gonorrhea. 3. Yes, condom may protect against some STDs, but it won't protect against HPV. 4. You cannot get rid of HPV by using condyloma paints. 5. The best way to prevent HPV is to practice safe sex including the use of condoms. 6. Gardasil prevents most strains of HPV. 7. Yes, you can resume having sex with your boyfriend.

Hello doctor,I am a 25-year-old male and I have never been able to fully retract my penis. I have severe phimosis. I know phimosis can be treated, but my biggest concern is that I now have blue-looking veins from the shaft of my penis to the actual penis head that is supposed to be exposed. Is it serious? I have an appointment with a urologist in two weeks but the suspense is really killing me. Is it common? or can it be treated? Will I be able to successfully retract the penis head? I also feel pain sensation when I touch the hole at the tip of the penis. Please help. Of note, I smoke marijuana. I have attached photos for your reference.

1) There are many causes of phimosis. The most common cause is constriction of the opening due to tight foreskin (preputial adhesions). This can be caused by trauma, poor hygiene, infection or inflammation. It can occur as a result of allergic reaction to certain substances such as soap, bubble bath, underwear etc., or may be genetically inherited. In some cases, the opening may not close properly after birth.2) Phimosis is usually diagnosed by physical examination. You need to see a physician who will examine your penis to confirm the diagnosis.3) Treating phimosis involves removing the prepuce (foreskin) and cutting away any scar tissue present. This is known as circumcision.4) Blue colored veins around the glans are normal in appearance and are related to blood circulatory system. They do not indicate

Hi doctor,I was diagnosed with TID 14 years back. I will run out of Lantus before the next shipment arrives, but I have plenty of Novolog on hand. My daily dose is 32.5 units Lantus at 10 AM and 12.5 units at 8 PM, with a sliding scale for Novolog (typically 0 to 6 units). What dosage or schedule would you recommend for temporarily relying on Novolog only?

1) For type 1 diabetes, the recommended treatment is insulin therapy.2) You need to give yourself regular injections of insulin throughout the day according to your blood sugar levels.3) The amount of insulin depends upon the blood sugar levels at different times of the day and also on other factors like age, weight and physical activity.4) The most common types of insulins used are rapid acting insulin (such as Novorapid) which is given before meals. Long-acting insulin (such as Humalog or Lantus) which is given once or twice each day.5) In case if you miss any injection then take that dose immediately after you remember it and then continue with the regular schedule.6) To know more about diet and exercise regimen consult a physician.

Hello doctor,I am a 57-year-old female. Here is my question constant heart palpitations and fluttering, continuous feeling of adrenaline rushing along with palpitations very bad at night but also during the day when sitting in doing nothing palpitations often make you feel nauseous on a 1 to 10 scale they are about an eight. All labs are normal ECG, echo, and Holter monitor are all normal.Doctor cannot figure it out and prescribed Propranolol 10 mg, told me to try these once a day. Yesterday after doctor visits heart palpitations for four hours got fed up and took one tablet one hour later, all palpitations and adrenaline rush was gone. Slept for the first time without being woke up having to cough to stop the palpitations. Had angio done approximately two years ago due to suspected heart attack or arrhythmia at home with all classic signs crushing chest pain jaw neck left arm down to the floor nauseated?Even with that lab test came back good the next day. Had carotid artery surgery two years ago to remove a piece of plaque in right carotid artery none found anywhere else no stent needed. Again all labs are good cholesterol not high on statins and warfarin. I must be perplexing to all doctors because they cannot figure it out. Was put on warfarin approximately 15 years ago due to DVTs as a result of a surgery, always therapeutic. So I had a heart attack or arrhythmia a few years back the angio came out the great doctor said everything looked fine now I have these crazy heart palpitations that would not stop. They go away as soon as I take the beta-blocker. I am told that beta-blockers even though anti-arrhythmic can also be pro arithmetic as well should I take this every day or should I only take this when I start to feel palpitations.

 Hi, Palpitations and other symptoms are suggestive of anxiety. You are taking propranolol which is a beta blocker and is used to treat anxiety. It will control your symptoms till you take it. But if you stop using it, then your symptoms will come back. So, you can continue taking it. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.

Hi doctor,I am a 49-year-old woman and last month I was hospitalized with a necrotizing soft tissue infection on my thigh. I had two debridement surgeries and was discharged after 5 days. I was treated with about 4 IV antibiotics. I do not remember them all, I recall seeing Vancomycin and Penicillin. I was told that the infection was not MRSA, but a "slower moving bacteria" they did not tell me what it was. I was swabbed for MRSA in my nose and butt before both surgeries and was told I did not have it. For the last day of my stay, I had a roommate who had a bad MRSA infection on her butt and sometimes had diarrhea incontinence during dressing changes. I had no physical contact with her, but we had the same nurse. I was discharged with a five day course of Augmentin.The wound has been healing very well and has not gotten infected, but three weeks after discharge I got an abscess under my arm. I went to an urgent care and was prescribed Clindamycin and told to return in three days for drainage. The abscess did not improve or get worse over the three days. I got it drained and was prescribed Augmentin and told to also continue the clindamycin. That was a week ago and the wound is healing well. They called today and said cultures show it was MRSA and they prescribed Bactrim and told me to stop the other antibiotics.I am feeling devastated by this and wanting to understand why it happened. Could I have gotten it in the hospital? I am concerned that it will not go away. Are those swabs at the hospital conclusive and mean for sure I did not have MRSA a month ago? I have never had any medical problems before and these experiences have been very frightening. Is there anything else I can do to prevent recurrence? I have read about everything from bleach baths and hibiclens to antibiotics in the nose.

1) MRSA is a superbug and is resistant to most of the antibiotics in use today. It is spread through direct contact with the skin lesions of someone carrying the bug or through contact with contaminated surfaces. Most hospitals routinely screen patients for MRSA colonization of their nasal cavity, mouth, and anal region.2) MRSA is usually resistant to penicillin and vancomycin, so if your infections were treated with those medications then you probably didn't have MRSA.3) You can take measures to avoid getting MRSA again like using hand sanitizer frequently, keeping your hands clean, doing regular baths with bleach water, avoiding contact with people who have visible skin lesions, wearing gloves when touching broken skin, etc. Hope this helps

Hello doctor,I am a sufferer of hemiplegic migraine. However, I had unusual collapses three months back. The first one was 40 minutes; I could not recall the whole of that period. I came back with an injured knee and felt dazed. I was fine after around two hours. The next day, I felt pressure in my head and as though I was about to die. I then could not recall getting home or the rest of the night. I was fine in the morning. Two days later, I felt horrendous pain in my head, felt like I was swimming, then tried to go home and again could not recall from deciding to go home to around two hours later and I was foggy for the rest of the night. I have had constant pain in the left side of my head above the temple for four years. It does not go. However, In the past two weeks, I have felt like it is throbbing and at times about to burst out. I was meant to see my neurologist three months back, but his receptionist did not follow the recommendation, and now I am unsure whether to have the tests done. I feel like we are playing with my life. Usually, I am pretty relaxed about the possibilities and know it is a migraine. But this feels different. This feels like intense throbbing above my ear from the temple along towards the back of my head, with a pain in my ear to just behind my jaw under my ear. My instinct says that an aneurysm needs ruling out. I do not know if I am just upset because it feels so different and this pressure is intense. It is a weird feeling. I currently take Sumatriptan as needed.Please, can you advise what to do? As it stands the next neuro appointment is after four months, added complication is that I have been breathless and unable to climb stairs without stopping and panting for past four months. I am having heart tests on the weekend. But, what do I do about my brain?

 Hi, Thanks for writing in. Aneurysms need to be ruled out by Doppler ultrasound scan of the carotid artery. You should get your blood pressure checked regularly. This is important since high blood pressure can cause aneurysms. Please also check your cholesterol levels which may increase risk for aneurysm formation. Your symptoms seem to suggest migraines. There are medications available for them. Please get examined by a neurologist and discuss these options.

Hello doctor,I have been tested for HIV 1 and 2 many times. My tests are 10 weeks card test negative. 12 weeks Elisa serum test negative. 14 weeks Elisa serum and p24 test negative. 16 weeks Elisa serum test negative. 23 weeks Elisa serum and p24 test negative. Is HIV is still my risk? But from few days I am having lots of pimple on my back and shoulders and they sometimes itch, are they because of HIV or something else?

 Hi, dear thanks for your contact to Chat Doctor. If you are HIV negative then there is no need to worry about it. It may be due to some other cause like allergy or acne etc. You should take proper treatment according to the diagnosis. I will suggest you to consult dermatologist and get done physical examination and if needed to take treatment accordingly. Hope this will help you. Wishing you good health. Regards

Hi doctor,I am 32 years old married male. Since two years I am suffering from premature ejaculation. I tried to control it, but did not get better result. My wife is very much unsatisfied. How to cure this issue?

1) Premature Ejaculation can be due to psychological factors and stress. It may also be associated with anxiety or depression. So you should consult a psychiatrist for counseling. You need to identify the stressor in your life. 2) For sexual dysfunction, you can use SSRI antidepressant like Escitalopram (Lexapro). 3) Use of topical anesthetic cream over penis before sex will help to delay ejaculation. 4) You should avoid alcohol as it might aggravate sexual problem. 5) Taking tablet Capsule "Sildenafil" 10 mg one hour before sex will help to delay ejaculation.

Hello doctor,I slept with color contacts in my eyes and now I woke and took them out and there is a white cloud blocking my vision.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor.com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. Contact lenses are not meant for sleeping. The contact lens should always be removed before going to bed. This can cause irritation and swelling of the conjunctiva as well as cornea. Please do not wear colored contacts while sleeping. Hopefully this will resolve the problem. Please get back if you need any clarification or have additional questions. Best wishes

Hello doctor,I am 32 years old and unmarried. I am a patient of PCOD. I also have a family history of breast cancer. My father\s sister had breast cancer recently. I am in a very big financial crisis. So, one of my friends suggested me to donate eggs. Will it be risky if I donate my eggs only once? As I am a patient of PCOD, will I be able to conceive in the future? Will I be given some hormonal treatment to conceive later? Please advise me whether I should proceed with the idea of egg donation. Is there any chance of developing breast or ovarian cancer if I donate eggs? Please guide me. I just want to know about its long term consequences as I am afraid of breast and ovarian cancer.

1) Egg donation is not considered to be associated with increased risk for breast or ovarian cancer.2) However, because of your family history of breast cancer, you may need to undergo genetic testing (such as BRCA1/BRCA2 mutations) before considering egg donation.3) You can discuss this with your treating gynecologist.4) The decision to pursue egg donation should be based upon your own personal preference and the potential benefits that could result from such an action.

Hello doctor, I am having too many health issues for the last three weeks. I feel sleepy all the time even I sleep eight hours already. I am feeling weak, tiredness, dizziness, and headache on the right side of my head (pressure and dullness). My bowel habit changed to three to four times a day. I have attached my blood work. Do you think I have any abnormality in blood? Do you think I am having a stroke or heart attack? Do I have too much thickness in blood as high hemoglobin and hematocrit? Do I have any kind of blood cancer like polycythemia or polycythemia vera? In spite of having too much hemoglobin and platelets, why am I having weakness? Do I need to take blood thinner medicine?

1) Your Hb is too high, but it does not indicate any problems with your red cells. It could be a sign of anemia due to other causes such as iron deficiency or thyroid disease. But if you don't have any other symptoms then this would not be causing your fatigue.2) The high platelet count is also not likely to cause your fatigue.3) Your hemoglobin is quite low and may be leading to fatigue.4) You do not seem to have any signs of cardiac or cerebrovascular disease.5) Blood thinners are not indicated.6) I suggest that you consult your primary care doctor who can examine you, order more tests and treat your condition appropriately.

Hello doctor,I had fever two days ago. Then one day ago started frequent urination and I could not hold it every time it happened. And there was pain during urination. Then started pain in the stomach. Today the urination is not that much but I have severe pain in both sides of my abdomen. I am not able to walk because of pain.

1) As per your history, It seems like urinary tract infection.2) You need to get an ultrasound abdomen done to see for any stone or mass.3) Get a urine routine examination test done.4) Get a culture sensitivity test done if required.5) Take a course of antibiotics as per doctors advice.6) Do a renal function test and blood sugar level also.7) Avoid taking cold Chat Doctor.

I am 30 Years old, Missed period for 8 days now. Since my 24 day of menstrual cycle was starting using duphaston drug once daily and finish the prescribed dose yesterday. And my menstrual cycle is between 26-28 days, this month on the days of my periods I got cramps but nothing come out. Could this be side effects of duphaston or?

1. It could be related to the medication as it can cause hormonal imbalance which may lead to irregular cycles. 2. You should get your follicle study done to know if there is any growth in the follicle so that you can take OCP (oral contraceptive pill) from the next cycle. 3. Avoid stress and have healthy diet with plenty of fluids. 4. Do not worry much about missed period.

Hi doctor,I am 50 years old female, went through menopause but otherwise I am healthy. There is a problem with my nails. Out of 10 nails, six nails have one-third of the nails separated from the nail beds, with a v shape, looking white underneath, rest of the nails are looking pinkish pale. The nails are painless unless I press them hard. All the nails have some ridges. I kept my nails short with no polish for over five weeks. My fingers felt dry with mild skin peeling after a travel. Currently, I have a mild skin eczema. I also had seborrheic dermatitis in my scalp a few years ago. But it is under control with special shampoo treatment. I had one fingernail with a similar problem but it was in a milder condition. I thought it was nail fungal. I used Mometasone furoate 0.1 % cream for my skin eczema. It cleared up when my nails grew. I have an allergy to pollen.

 Hi and welcome to Chat Doctor. Thank you for your query. I understand your concern and would like to tell you that you may be suffering from psoriasis or fungus. I suggest that you consult a dermatologist and get evaluated. A patch test should be done and if positive then you can start on a course of medication for psoriasis. Regarding fungus, there are many creams available which are effective against fungal infections. Hope this information helps. Please do not hesitate to ask further queries if any. Wishing you good health. Take care!

Hello doctor,I have a 0.2 cm endobronchial nodule in the right lower lobe. I was a smoker for 20 years. I had a CT scan for cough and now new nodule. Is this cancer?

1. It is not possible to say that it is cancer without biopsy. However, if it is growing or new, then it needs to be evaluated.2. You should get an FNAC (fine needle aspiration cytology) done which will tell us whether it is malignant or benign.3. If it is malignant, you can go for surgery and if it is benign, no need to worry.4. Smoking has nothing to do with cancer of lung.

Hello doctor,I am a 26 year old female. I am worried after reading about the effects of radiation from a CT scan. I had two separate scans within a month. Both the scans were for the chest, abdomen, and pelvis. The doctors were looking for a potential lymphoma, but nothing conclusive was found. I am worried about the future cancer risk. Please help.

1) There is no proven link between cancer and radiation exposure. 2) The amount of radiation used in these CT scans is so small that it can not cause any harm to your health.3) Cancer takes many years to develop, and if there is a chance of developing cancer then it would have developed by now.4) Do not worry.

Hi doctor,I have serious constipation problems and Dulcolax is the only thing that works in my body. I take a lot of fruits, tea, and fiber supplements. What can I do?

 Hi there, thanks for your question. I appreciate your efforts to find help online. I would like to know more about your dietary habits, as well as your daily activity levels. Constipation is usually caused by low fiber intake or lack of physical activity. I suggest you increase the amount of fiber you eat (e.g., oats, apples, pears, bananas, citrus fruits, leafy vegetables). Also, make sure to drink plenty of water (8 glasses per day). Avoid caffeinated beverages such as coffee, tea, colas etc. In addition, try to get regular exercise. This will help stimulate your bowels and also improve your overall health. Hope this helps. Take care and all the best!

Hi doctor,I am suffering from stomach pain. I am taking Sucramal syrup and A-Spas tablet. I have an increase in stomach pain when the acidity condition increases. I have done a scanning. But nothing was shown.

1st thing is to get your H P test done as it may be due to some bacterial or viral infection. If you are having symptoms of fever along with the above mentioned symptoms then it could be due to gastritis or ulcer. You can take anti-acid medication like pantoprazole for relief. It will also help in reducing the acidity.

Hello doctor, My question is, when can I drink more than two glasses of wine a day or a whole bottle without it hindering the healing process after my dermapen session of micro needling? And also, because I was occasionally drinking a few bottles of beer after I had gotten it done, does that mean my healing time has to be longer than six weeks? By the way, I did my acne scar regions with 2.00 mm needles.

1. Yes, you can have alcoholic beverages after derma-pen treatment as well. It will not affect your recovery at all.2. The only thing which can increase the healing time is if you get it done again in the same area before complete healing. So wait for a month and then repeat it.3. If you have been regularly following the post procedure instructions given by your clinician like avoiding sun exposure, using the creams etc., then there should not be any problem.

Hello doctor,I am hepatitis B patient. My current status is as follows. HBeAg - negative (0.010), HBV E antibody or Ag - positive (0.031) and HBV DNA quantitative (PCR) less than 17.1 IU/mL. Please advise whether this can be cured to become negative as it is affecting my career.

 Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. I understand your concern. It is possible to eradicate the infection if you follow up regularly with your physician and maintain strict hygiene. For now, I suggest you continue with medications that will reduce the viral load and keep it under control. Hope this helps. Take care.

Hello doctor,I recently got my CBC done as a part of a routine check-up in which my Hgb, RBC, platelets, WBC counts was entirely within the range except for monocytes. My monocytes were 5.28x10^9/L. I feel healthy otherwise and except for PCOS have no other known medical condition. My GP said that monocytes were nothing to worry about as TLC is fine and I am fine. So can you tell me if it is nothing to worry?

 Hi, dear thanks for your question, firstly I would like to know what is your age, gender, any medication or diet being taken. Monocyte count is usually increases with age. For males this is normal up to 6.75 x 109 / L, for females up to 9.3 x 109 / L. However, there may be some abnormality in case of high monocyte count. Your doctor has rightly advised you not to worry. If you want to know more about your health just ask us. Have a good day!!

Hi, doctor I am 13 weeks pregnant last week I undergone for NT scan the report was normal and the same time I gave double marker blood test. Yesterday from the hospital they called me for blood test because the first report shows abnormal. I am so scared whether second time double marker test shows normal. They didn\t give the report of first test but simply told first test was abnormal so we sending for second time. I am confused. Please tell me whether second time test shows normal result. If it is abnormal is there is any early treatment to protect the baby from down syndrome.

1) The first test that you did not get the results of, would have been an ultrasound and fetal nuchal translucency (NT). This is the one that is used to screen for Down syn Chat Doctor. 2) The second test that you do have the results of, is a serum biochemistry/serum protein analysis, which looks at various other things like thyroid function, hemoglobin levels etc., and also gives the chromosomes of the fetus. 3) So, what your doctor means by "abnormal" is that the NT was outside the normal range, and that the second test has come back with a normal result. 4) There is no way to prevent or treat Down syn Chat Doctor.